-So, we just start rolling, okay?
-Yeah?
-So, how we typically start this...
-Yeah.
...is each one of us says
something controversial about us
that nobody knows right now.
[theme music playing]
Ready, guys?
-So, how we typically start this...
-Yeah.
...is each one of us says something
controversial about us
that nobody knows right now.
-Mm.
-Hmm.
[laughs]
I'm in a strict company, boss.
[laughter]
-I'm part of your company, but it's okay.
-[Nitish chuckles]
Maybe you can talk about something
not related to the company.
-More, like, personal, I don't know.
-Yeah.
-Okay. Shall I go?
Well, I'm very temperamental,
which people think I'm not.
You are temperamental?
Can be. Very explosive, 1% of the time.
-Wow, I haven't really seen--
-Or 0.1% of the time.
My image is, in the industry,
to be the most calmest person around.
Yeah, true.
And who are you usually
temperamental with?
Just very moody. Sometimes, very moody.
-Oh...
-[Nitish chuckles]
So if I were to meet
your childhood classmate,
-your best friend...
-Yeah?
...and ask him...
if Nitish is capable of
one extremely naughty thing in life
at the age of 40, 50, whatever,
what would he prophesize
you be capable of doing?
You wouldn't believe it. Nothing.
-Come on.
-[Nitish chuckling]
I was the most simplest,
most quietest kid in school.
-Yeah?
-Yeah.
Absolutely. Very introvert-ish.
Yeah?
I've changed now.
-[Sean] Mm.
-[Nitish chuckles]
Do you consider yourself
an introvert today?
Yes, but much better than what I was
when I was much younger.
-And I think YPO changed me a lot...
-[Nikhil] Yeah?
...in the last decade or so.
Do you wanna tell everybody
who does not know, what is YPO?
-[Nitish] Sure.
-Give us a minute on YPO.
YPO is the Young Presidents' Organization.
It's originally a US organisation,
but has 14-- more than 14,
I think, 15 or 16 chapters now in India.
It brings together businessmen,
professionals, in a very close group.
So, in Mumbai, for example,
I think a total of 300 members
might be there.
And we organise a lot of learning events.
Like, I was just saying, right,
we're visiting Seoul next week,
and we're doing
a lot of learning activity.
We're actually visiting
Sean's large Krafton office
where we're meeting the CEO, et cetera.
I think it's a great networking event,
and you may get to know
a lot of great people.
You are in YPO,
so you can add to that, what I didn't.
But, yeah.
-I think of YPO very differently.
-Yeah.
I have very...
first principles questioning
about why people give so much money
to an organisation
and then work for the organisation
for free.
When I was not in YPO--
I say bad things about everybody, okay?
This is a very open forum,
so feel free to join me.
And I'm gonna pull all your legs,
so feel free to pull it back.
Otherwise, I'll feel bad and guilty
at the end of it.
[laughter]
YPO, before I joined,
appeared like this organisation
where rich people hang out.
-Yeah.
-And I had a lot of curiosity about...
what rich people might be doing together
when they hang out in a closed room,
and they're not allowing cameras
and outsiders to come in.
[Nitish] Correct.
But, in the few years
that I have been with them,
I have kind of realised that...
it's like a social network.
-Right.
-[Nikhil] It's a social network
for people to hang out,
-eat, drink, chill...
-[Nitish] Correct.
-...go on holidays...
-...and also learn on the side.
-That's right.
So I don't know how to put YPO in a box,
but it feels like,
if you move to a new city,
and you've been lucky in life,
or you were born lucky in life,
it's a good way to make friends
very quickly.
That's true.
And there's also a brotherhood, right?
So you go anywhere in the world,
and you meet a fellow YPOer,
-there's an instant connect.
-Why is that?
I think there's a code of conduct,
right, YPO--
Forget all of that.
-Deep down, why is that?
-Trust, I think.
Why trust?
I think, one,
because you are a YPO member.
Because you know he is from affluence,
and he has paid a certain amount of fee
to be in an organisation?
-[laughter]
-No bullshit on the table.
Sounds fair, right? Sounds fair.
No, no. Perhaps, to a bit.
But, more importantly, I think it's also
because, as a YPOer, over the years--
I've been a YPOer over ten years, right?
I think you learn certain codes of conduct
which you tend to stick to.
For example, confidentiality.
Do you wanna introduce yourself
professionally as well?
Yeah, sure.
So, I'm the founder and CEO
of Nazara Technologies.
Nazara is India's only
listed gaming company.
I actually started coding games
at the age of seven.
So one of the lucky guys who discovered
his passion at a very young age.
And I've had the fortune of--
At a young age,
my parents encouraged me a lot.
I was doing gaming now,
what, 37, 35 years back,
and I pursued that for my entire life now.
We became the first listed
gaming company in 2021.
So three years now.
And the journey continues,
the game continues,
-I continue to play it.
-Do you regret it? Listing?
-Not at all. Not at all.
-No?
I wouldn't have met you
and got you as an investor.
Okay, for all the disclosures
that should be made,
-I am an investor in Nitish's company.
-[Joseph] Okay.
And what is it, 4-5%?
-5%.
-5% investor in Nitish's company.
And we meet often,
and like I'm gonna bug all of you today,
I bug him a lot on questions and--
Because I want to understand
this domain a bit more.
Today is rooted from that same curiosity
because so many people are telling me
that gaming is this next big thing.
The young, today, are spending
so much more time on gaming
than traditional forms of entertainment.
So I have a lot of curiosity around it.
But most people who I have asked
in person, not on camera,
if they regret listing and becoming
a public company, say they do.
-I don't.
-Nine out of ten.
I absolutely don't.
But why do you inherently think
listing a company is good?
Is access to capital cheaper?
See, from our case, I think--
I really thought... two things.
Having done this business
for a really long time,
two decades, at a time
when gaming didn't exist in India,
I really felt, at that point of time,
that, one, by going public
as India's first gaming company,
we could really plant a flag
that India is opening up.
-Is it good PR?
-Very good PR.
I mean, if things are going well.
And, for us--
Are any of your shareholders
also your clients?
-Is there a significant overlap?
-No.
In terms of end players, there would be,
but we don't market
or cross-market to them.
I mean, we don't cross-market
our equity to our players.
It's difficult to extrapolate that
or figure out the exact data,
but there would be.
So, what is it? When you list a company,
is it because you're able to get money
cheaply and faster and easily?
Is it that you're doing
a marketing exercise?
I'm assuming, when you go
from pre-public to public,
you spend as much as...
best case, 1.5, 2%,
worst case, 4-5%,
in the bankers you bring in,
the consultants you bring in,
the accounting fees,
all of that put together.
So, if somebody is spending
that much money,
what is the true incentive?
If you're saying PR, your shareholders
are not really your clients.
If it's not capital, then what is it?
No, I think, in the last three, four,
five years, as Nazara went public,
our brand visibility and company's
credibility significantly increased.
Credibility to who? To your customers?
To a variety of stakeholders, I would say.
When I say customers,
our customers are end gamers.
I think, maybe, not so much to them,
but even partners like Sean and Krafton
and global players like that,
when they're coming into India
and wanting to partner,
I think, today,
Nazara is clearly one company
that they're very happy
to talk to and partner.
And maybe, Sean,
you can agree or not agree with me.
Yeah, I mean, I totally agree.
I mean, being listed
gives a lot of good publicity.
Good publicity, and then, like,
a feeling of trustworthiness to,
especially, the companies outside India,
which might not have
a very good visibility and understanding
about the backgrounds of the company.
Actually, I felt the same
when Krafton got listed,
maybe around a similar timing--
-[Nitish] Yeah.
-How big is Krafton?
-I know Nazara is 5,000 crores.
-Yeah.
Our market cap is around
$9 billion to $10 billion.
So that's one reason.
I think there are many other
related reasons as well.
I also felt, one of the reasons
for a lot of private companies--
Like, I was a VC-backed company
for many, many years,
and there are a lot of commitments,
SHA terms, preferences
that you give to the investors.
In my case, I was very lucky.
I had WestBridge Capital,
which you would know, in Bangalore.
Sandeep Singhal, who invested in me
from 2015 all the way to 2018, 2019.
-You also had Rakesh Jhunjhunwala for it.
-Yeah. Of course.
Rakeshji invested in 2018,
much later. But--
Are you saying
VCs are the bigger demon in the room
than public market retail clients?
No, I'm saying, as an entrepreneur,
you know that there are a lot of terms
you have signed on...
Mm.
...which you don't necessarily like.
Again, I want to clarify, with me,
my relation with WestBridge
or Sandeep Singhal was fantastic.
They were always very patient, I never--
In 15 years, we never picked up
the agreement and looked at it.
But, psychologically, once you go public,
all these rights fall away, right?
Because everybody has equal rights.
And I'm as answerable to one shareholder,
one single shareholder
having one single share, as I am to you.
Right.
It's kind of an empowering feeling,
is what I feel.
And, yeah, I think, honestly,
I'm enjoying it.
It has its own challenges.
For example, quarterly pressures,
every quarter results.
I think the compliances take care
of themselves after a point, right?
The hygiene happens,
that's not so much of an issue.
But it's also how you approach it.
Like, I have tried in the last three years
as a listed company,
and that's what I've been sharing
with a lot of entrepreneurs who list.
It's not easy to walk the talk,
but you have to do the right thing,
what you genuinely believe is right,
versus trying to deliver
the next quarter's result,
even if, sometimes,
that is a short-term pain.
Second is, you have to try
and be as transparent
and disclose as much as you want.
So, if a shareholder
wants to call you and ask
what you had for breakfast this morning,
-you should be ready to say.
-I'll say this about Nitish.
If I were to categorise him
with a word cloud, as a human being,
I would say conservative.
I'm not gonna praise him
because he's sitting in front of me.
-[Nitish] Sure.
-[laughter]
I would say conservative.
Last person I would assume
will ever do anything reckless.
I would also say very...
diligent, detail-oriented,
and believes in long-term relationships.
We live in a world where things
go up and down so quickly.
So, the big, big thing about Nitish is,
you know, 10, 20, 30 years from now...
he'll still be here.
He might not be growing the fastest,
but he will be doing the right thing
slowly in the background,
which, strangely enough,
is a really rare thing,
not just here,
but everywhere in the world today.
You learn from your lessons, right?
When I started, I was, like, 17,18,
right in the start of
the dot-com boom in '99,
and the crash in 2000, right?
So I learnt my lessons very quickly then.
And I think the conservatism
comes a bit from there,
which is a good thing
and a bad thing, right?
Because it also has its own handicap.
But it allows you
to live to fight another day,
-and sustain, which is a good thing.
-[Nikhil] Correct. Yeah.
Even my industry's like that,
stock markets.
Yeah.
It's all about
living to fight another day.
Sean, would you like to go next?
Yeah, why not? [chuckles]
Yeah, I'm from South Korea.
-Yeah.
-I was born in Pohang,
which is a, like, southeastern coast city.
I was born there,
from, you know...
from parents who are working
for one of the largest tech companies
in the world.
So I'm from a middle-class family.
Yeah, that's my... [chuckles]
I'm guessing South Korean middle-class is
much more rich than Indian middle-class.
What is GDP per capita in South Korea?
-$50,000?
-33,000 now, I guess.
Middle-class would be like
$70,000-$80,000 a year?
Yeah, household income might be like that.
But then you have to understand
that Korea grows-- grew quite fast.
So when I was, like,
you know, 10, 15, it was--
I cannot say that it was similar
to what India's economy
is now currently positioned,
but South Korea's GDP,
when there was the Olympics in 1988,
it was 2,500 or 2,700,
which is pretty similar to where India is.
So, as a South Korean,
we started from, like--
in the '60s, '70s, before I was born,
it was a developing country
in the lower side among global peers.
And then it grew into
a developed country in the--
What era are you talking about?
Which year?
From '70s till, maybe, 2000.
These 30 years, Korea maybe started
from, maybe, 300, 400 GDP per capita,
and has become, now, like,
you know, 15,000,
maybe 15,000 around, like, early 2000.
So that was the journey,
Korean economy grew quite fast.
Do you have any North Korean friends
or did you ever?
Not really.
Like, it has been separated,
like, more than 70 years now.
And we are not allowed
to visit North Korea, legally.
Or if you enter, then you cannot come--
Sorry?
Are there any North Koreans
in South Korea?
Yeah, yeah. I mean,
there are quite sizeable defectors.
Like, they are, uh...
they are defecting from North Korea
through third-party countries like China,
Vietnam, Mongolia, Thailand.
So I believe-- I don't really remember
the exact number,
but, I think, at the peak,
there was 10,000 or 20,000 per year,
the North Koreans defecting North Korea
to enter Chi-- enter South Korea.
What's Korean society like today?
I have never been.
-I would love to go.
-Yeah, you should. You should.
So, you've been in India a while now.
You live in Bangalore, where I also live.
[Sean] Yeah.
If you had to draw parallels
between society in Bangalore
and society in North-- in South Korea.
-Sorry [laughs awkwardly]
-That mistake happens.
What is similar, and what is dissimilar?
Like Korea, South Korea is very--
quite a homogeneous society.
It's getting more cosmopolitan.
There are more immigrants,
especially from Southeast Asia.
But I think, overall, 97%, 98%
are all Korean, in terms of population.
And also, it's a small country.
I think the land mass is around
100,000 square kilometres,
which might be, I don't know,
20 times or 40 times smaller than India.
Old people speak only Korean.
There are no Hindi-speaking people.
-English-speaking?
-English...
I mean, because of education,
it has taken some time,
but I think young Koreans
speak fairly good English.
But it's still very much
like the second language, is it?
Yeah, of course, of course.
So, in school, we...
I mean, most public schools
do not use English
as a medium for teaching classes.
So, English has separate,
sort of, you know, classes,
which-- maybe three hours a week
or something like that. So, English--
But we spend a lot of money
to learn English outside the class,
outside the classroom. So...
I mean, I also studied a lot of English
outside the school,
which is still the case.
Do you live in Bangalore by yourself?
Yeah. I mean, half voluntarily
and half involuntarily.
It's kind of a long story,
but to make it short,
when I was working in HQ in Seoul,
we started to get a sense
of how India is developing
as a gaming country.
I think it was in 2019,
I visited the Nazara office.
Also, I visited some other companies
and VC firms' offices back then.
And we slowly thought about--
we need to properly spend time in India
and invest in Indian companies
and work with Indian companies.
But that was starting from 2019.
But the chairman, chairman of Krafton,
he travelled to India
way earlier than me, maybe 2017 or '18.
And after he came back from there,
from India,
he told us, like,
the key executives in the company,
that we should do something in India.
He didn't tell us how.
He wanted us to find a way.
And then we started investments,
and the first investment
was NODWIN Gaming,
-which is a subsidiary of...
-Akshat.
-Yeah, yeah, Akshat. Yeah.
-What do you think of Akshat?
-Yeah, I mean, like, no-one--
-[Animesh chuckles]
Why is Animesh laughing?
What do you think of Akshat?
[Sean] Maybe he doesn't like him.
He calls himself the Professor,
and I think he's actually the Professor.
He is the professor of the industry.
So I have been following Akshat
for, like, a good ten years,
even before
I got into gaming professionally.
You know, when NODWIN used to--
When Akshat himself was a caster,
he used to cast in their own events.
-Ah, I didn't know it.
-He was, and Gautam.
Both of them,
they used to cast their own events.
I believe that he has changed the face
of esports in India, specifically.
To be that consistent with the efforts
when gaming was nothing in India,
way back in 2014 is, I think,
when he established NODWIN.
And then, to take some massive steps
like, you know,
selling his majority to Nazara
way back in the day,
and then still having that same gist
to build the company.
And what NODWIN has been doing
over the last one and a half years,
specifically, I think,
he's a person to look up to.
And, you know, like, I was smiling
because he's the only person,
at some point in my career,
I would want to, you know,
stand shoulder-to-shoulder in the sense
of the enterprise that I built.
-Mm.
-He's a one-of-a-kind person.
What are esports, Animesh, if I may ask?
Esports, it's gaming
in a competitive format
wherein there are wins and losses.
It's not about playing inside the game
and winning and losing,
but there are teams,
just like how we have in cricket,
and there are a fixed set of players,
there's a roster, there are teams,
and they are playing with high stakes,
with a big prize, full tournament.
-And what kind of games, typically?
-It could be anything.
It could be FPS,
which is like CS that you were--
-that you used to play back in your day.
-Just say full forms. FPS is what?
FPS is first-person shooter, wherein,
you know, the view format of the game is,
you have a gun in your hand,
and you can see a first-person view.
Is that the most popular
kind of game in India, shooting?
India? Yeah, shooting is very popular.
But third-person shooting,
TPS, like, you know the game--
Like, you can see the character fully,
and you're moving.
So, Krafton, we know now,
Krafton was a $20 billion company.
Now, it's a $10 billion company,
roundabout.
How did you get into this industry?
How are you Krafton's CEO now?
-How did you come to India?
-Krafton India CEO.
I really like to play games.
I liked playing games maybe since I was...
not seven, maybe eight, nine, ten.
So, I-- Maybe after grade two
or grade three. My father--
How old are you now, Sean?
-45. 45.
-Mm-hmm.
-Nitish also?
-I think we are in the same age.
-45?
-Yeah. Born in '78, right?
-'79. '79.
-'79, okay.
My father could afford, you know, buying,
back then it was Apple-compatible,
like, 8-bit computers.
So, my father could afford it.
And, honestly, back then, you said,
"I want to learn how to programme",
and things like that,
but I didn't code too much,
I just played games all the time.
So that was the beginning of my passion
on gaming as a hobby, mostly.
And then it grew quite a bit.
So I played a lot
even in high school and college,
and back then, like Taiwan,
like Israel, Korean--
South Korean men should go to the army.
-But I, back then--
-Conscription.
Conscription, yeah, it's compulsory,
but we could choose to work for
high-tech companies, IT companies,
including gaming companies,
if you have a certain
engineering certificate...
after, like, a college degree.
So I tried that direction
so I could get in--
get a job as a game developer,
which still exists.
I could get a job there
as a game designer.
So, that was my beginning
of a career in gaming.
But I found that I'm not that good
at game designing or coding,
so I switched my role
to the marketing and sales side,
and then, you know, and I--
That was how I got into the gaming side.
But I actually didn't like
working for a gaming company.
I found that it's something different.
You like playing games, but you don't
really like to work for a gaming company.
It was-- To be a little casual,
it was shitty to work for a gaming company
from young, ambitious men perspectives.
I wanted to work for big companies,
so I switched to banking.
How old were you then?
Around ten years after I had an MBA.
[Sean chuckles]
So I started my career in gaming in 2000.
I got an MBA in 2008,
and I started my career in banking
from 2008 till 2017,
in which year I joined Krafton
as a CFO of one of the subsidiaries.
So that's how I got into Krafton.
And then, you know, we were
very successful in a game called PUBG.
Did PUBG get banned in India?
You wanna talk about PUBG?
Yeah. I mean, like, it was more of a--
It was huge in India, right?
Everybody was playing it.
Yeah, it's still big, but now it's BGMI.
Is it the same thing
with a different name?
No, it's an India-oriented game
that's made specifically for India,
and it's a different publisher altogether.
It has nothing to do with PUBG MOBILE.
That was a Tencent game.
It was a Chinese company,
the biggest gaming company,
you can call it.
Tencent owns everything,
like, majority of the stuff.
What is the relationship
between Tencent and Krafton?
Tencent is the investor.
Tencent is an investor
in Krafton before the IPO,
and they still maintain some share.
-So BGMI is also you?
-Yeah.
So you stopped PUBG to build BGMI,
and now that is popular? Like that?
PUBG is actually--
The original PUBG PC is a Krafton game,
and then Tencent had the right
to build the mobile version of it.
And that's globally available,
PUBG MOBILE.
When India banned PUBG MOBILE,
Krafton came with the Indian version
of their thing,
they made their own thing, BGMI,
which is Battlegrounds Mobile India.
And what are the differences
between these games?
-One is more appealing than the other?
-[Animesh] Technically, nothing.
But then, it's more about the origin
and everything else
that they had to address
to launch the game in India.
But China does that to everybody, right?
They don't even allow Facebook
and Google in China, no?
-That's right.
-[Sean] Yeah.
And for gaming apps,
or even before the mobile era,
they allow publishing of games
on an approval basis,
which is maybe only
China and Vietnam in the world.
Do you feel like the world is becoming
a more fragmented place?
Taking inspiration from China,
a country which does not allow
foreign apps, and replicates it
with their own versions,
will all IP that touches the citizens
of a certain country,
in the future, be built in the country
or at least be owned
or hosted in that country?
It's a really interesting question
because I think that
that was the direction we were going,
and we may go back to that again.
It was being called splinternet.
Basically, like, the idea that, because
China has its own internal policies
where you need a licence,
you also need a local partner,
they were banning a lot of apps
from the US.
The current situation now,
and there was a time
when Trump was president of the US,
and he was gonna ban TikTok,
it seemed like we were gonna be
moving more in that direction.
We might again,
but I do think that that's a danger.
And actually, though,
when it came to me starting a company
here in India,
that was a consideration
because we felt that
if the world does move towards
a splinternet,
and if China and Russia are on one side,
I wanna be on the other side.
And if India is split from China--
Currently, one thing
that's not well understood
is that almost all of the top
mobile shooter games
are all developed
by Chinese companies, effectively.
Right? And so, like, it's--
Why is that?
It's because they have developed
deep expertise in shooters.
And they also--
There's been, like, a phenomenon
in which, like, the Tencent teams
and the Chinese teams have...
They're just--
The work ethic, the culture,
they're just kind of crazy
compared to the West. Right?
Like, the West, right now,
if I'm just being honest...
We're gonna be honest here, right?
...is kind of in decline,
where you don't have the same work ethic,
the same kind of drive.
And I think,
when you look at budgets today,
in the US, budgets are, like--
To make a game now
is like $100 million, $300 million
for, like, an HD, a PC, or console game.
But, in China, they're working 996.
They've identified specific strategic
areas that are important to them,
and then they just go all in
in those areas.
Mobile, for shooters,
has been one of those areas.
And so, when you look at every game
that they work on,
Call of Duty: Mobile
is actually developed by Tencent,
although they're using the IP
of Activision, for example, right?
And most of the--
I would say that the skill, the technical
expertise, currently exists in China.
One of the objectives of the company
that I started
was to hopefully do that
here in India as well.
-But it's been tough.
-Why is that?
[chuckles awkwardly]
I think that...
So, the Indian game development
ecosystem is still early.
And if you look at the historical context
of the Indian game development ecosystem,
it's been one that's more--
that has been more of
a services orientation, right?
And so, the model in India, in terms
of the historical context,
has been taking games from the West,
at least for mobile, that are in decline,
and then getting a team in India
to live operate it for... greater margins,
right, for lower costs.
And so, because of
that historical context,
there hasn't been, like...
a culture, a knowledge,
a skill set of new game development
in India yet.
I'm sure it's burgeoning,
and there's certainly a lot of, you know,
successful local game companies, but--
Has there been a single game in India,
built in India, that has reached scale
in a true sense?
So, I believe the game
at the highest scale
from a downloads perspective
is Gametion's Ludo King,
-but, really, it's--
-Gametion.
-Yeah.
-Gametion. That's an Indian company?
-Yes, yes.
When I look at the charts,
that's the only game that I see come,
you know, on the top charts... globally.
But still,
it's largely an Indian audience,
because there's so many Indians
that love ludo.
In what scale are we talking?
In terms of revenue
coming out of the game?
I think that it has almost
very little revenue, right? [chuckles]
But from a downloads perspective,
it's very active.
They've recently crossed
a billion downloads, I think.
-[Sean] Yeah.
-[Nitish] In India.
-But, yeah, monetisation is a challenge.
-Right.
And I think that's the opportunity
for India, though, right?
Which is, like, if India can develop
a similar kind of work ethic,
skill set, and knowledge of monetisation,
and how to monetise more strongly,
then, I think
India has a great opportunity.
You know, just to add to that, Nikhil,
we've been around for so long, right,
so we've really seen the whole evolution
of the Indian gaming industry,
right from late '90s
to where we are today in '24.
I think one more reason is that,
unlike China, et cetera,
which had a large PC gaming culture,
gaming cafes, et cetera,
for a very long period of time,
India has really been
a mobile-gaming-first nation.
So, most people playing games,
the first experience
has been the mobile phone,
very casual gaming.
So just that culture
takes time to develop.
Even when you're thinking
as a game designer,
as a game developer, there's an evolution.
Up to 2010, you would not see that at all.
Then, you had Zyngas of the world
and Electronic Arts of the world
set up shop,
back offices in Bangalore
and Hyderabad, et cetera,
and you've started seeing
some of those come out,
set up some companies
which are now becoming successful.
So I think we're going up that curve,
hopefully, we will accelerate
up that curve.
But I think he was making a good point.
Joseph is saying there is--
the ecosystem in India is not capable
of producing a game...
which can really compete
on the world stage.
What do you think India has to change
to change that?
I think there has to be
a few things that change.
I would say, probably,
the most important thing...
is talent.
So, look, I live in Silicon Valley, okay?
The smartest guys in Silicon Valley
are all Indian.
-[all chuckling]
-And so, they certainly have--
Like, Indians can be
the smartest anywhere.
They're-- You know, all the tech CEOs
are all Indian in Silicon Valley.
[Nikhil] Do you think that's the problem?
The smart ones are going
out of the country?
That's one of the problems.
But I think that gaming in India
has a double problem.
So, first, yes,
there are a lot of people in India,
when they get an opportunity to,
like, 7x, 10x their salary
by going abroad,
and they have that opportunity
because they've developed
a skill set here, then they'll jump.
I think the other thing
is more of a cultural issue
that I have discovered over the past
few years that I've been here in India,
which is that gaming, at least--
And you guys, please disagree with me.
But, in my experience, it seems like
gaming is not looked upon favourably
-by a lot of Indian parents.
-[Sean] Mm.
And so, when somebody
wants to go into gaming,
they really have to
want to go into gaming.
But, otherwise,
I think a lot of the parents,
they, typically, would want to go
to join some high-tech firm,
an Amazon, a Google, a Facebook,
a company like that,
rather than join a gaming company.
And so, the image of a gaming company--
Unlike in the West, right?
Like, in the West, joining a game company
is looked upon very favourably
for a number of reasons, right?
It generally, like,
leads in terms of innovation.
A lot of the people that go,
that are in gaming,
actually are highly coveted by Facebook,
Google, and the high-tech companies.
But that kind of feeling
and that kind of...
that kind of orientation towards gaming
in the US versus India is so different.
So, then, you not only
lose talent overseas,
but you also lose talent
to other local Indian industries.
Yeah.
And what do you think...
should change in India to culturally...
make gaming,
a career in gaming, look cool?
I think it's more of an education, right?
So I can name so many of my friends
that went from gaming
to join Facebook or Amazon or Netflix.
And I think
if some of the Indian employees here
or people who are considering
going into gaming understood,
"Wow, I didn't know that those companies
really sought people from gaming,
because gaming is so innovative
and it is so cross-disciplinary,
and you have to learn a lot of
complex skills when you're in gaming."
So that is not well understood here.
And I think that the other thing, also,
that hasn't happened is that,
because, again, the historical context
of a lot of the Indian gaming companies
has been more on the live ops
and services orientation,
that there hasn't been
the level of poaching
or of the high-tech companies
trying to hire people
out of Indian gaming companies yet.
And I think, when that happens--
And I think that happens from people
who have learned from a company building
new games that are very successful, right?
Then they'll be poached
fairly regularly or sought after.
I think that's when it becomes
more popular.
Can you tell me a way?
Assume I'm a young,
20-year-old Indian boy/girl,
and I want to get a job
at Lila Games, your company,
what should I learn?
Well, I think it would depend on
the specific role that you're looking for.
So, if it's product management,
I would be looking for one thing.
If it's engineering,
it'd be completely different.
But I would say, like, a general bit
of advice for anyone that's new,
looking to join a gaming company, is to...
essentially, think outside of the resume
and to build...
I call it a digital footprint.
But, basically, like,
show me what you know,
show me what you can do
that's just not, like,
lines on your resume.
So whether it's projects
or whether it's, like, blog posts
where I can see how you think,
because I will say, you know,
having been recruiting here
for the last three and a half years
and having interviewed and looked at
thousands and thousands of resumes,
I would say that most people
generally don't stand out
because they don't actually show me
anything that they've done
that really tells me
that they care about gaming,
that they've thought about gaming.
So anyone that has a blog post,
a project that they've put onto a website,
any kind of additional, kind of,
digital footprint outside of their resume
really shows me that this is somebody
that I need to pay attention to.
So I'll absolutely look at a resume
with, like, links to projects, blog posts,
YouTube videos, anything of that nature,
more than just another resume, right?
Interesting. Would you like to tell us
more about yourself, Joseph?
Like, generally, life?
I'm a guy that's trying to do
something meaningful before I die.
So, you know, I think--
So, in terms of my career,
I kind of worked in
software development, initially.
Then I moved into management consulting.
Then, around 2010, 2011,
started a gaming company, unsuccessfully.
Then went into, like, kind of
consulting with big Asian publishers,
trying to, you know, publish games,
mobile games for the Western market.
Why do they call them publishers?
[Joseph] Publishers generally
finance and distribute games.
So their model is to, like,
not do the development.
They work with another company
that actually develops the games.
But then they would help get those games
launched into market and distributed.
And so there's a financing component,
but there's also a distribution
and marketing component as well.
Can you give me the example
of a publisher and a game developer?
-The distinction?
-Sure.
So, for example-- I mean,
I think Krafton recently--
Like, just to kind of give you
a very live example,
Krafton worked with a company
called ZeptoLab
that has a game for the global market,
and they worked with them to make
an Indian-specific version of the game.
So I don't know
what the exact deal terms were,
but I assume that they would pay for
-part or full development cost.
-Revenue share. Yup.
They would have a revenue share with them,
may potentially give them a guarantee
of some kind, some initial payment,
and then it would be up to Krafton to
actually market and distribute the game.
The developer, after they finished
developing the game, would either--
For a premium game, they'd be done.
For a live-operated, free-to-play game,
they would continue to operate the game
and then share in the success of the game
through a revenue share.
Interesting.
And when I read that
you were at SEGA Games,
by SEGA, do you mean that console
which we used to have back in the year?
-Yeah, so-- [chuckles]
-I remember playing that.
So, after I kind of did consulting,
I joined a company called FunPlus,
and I actually had a pretty big success.
And the model that I learned at FunPlus
is the model that
I'm actually trying to bring to India.
And so, at FunPlus, we had something
that I call a leads-based model.
But, essentially, we took, at that time,
a fairly inexperienced team in Beijing.
And this was during a period--
Like, 2014-15 or so,
when China was not
as dominant as it is today,
and we had a team in Beijing,
we brought experts
from around the world in various areas
that the team was not strong in.
We brought them to China,
had them teach the team,
and then we developed games out of China.
The game that I developed was called
King of Avalon,
but that turned out to be
a pretty big success.
And then, after FunPlus,
I joined SEGA, basically,
in their mobile games division.
So, basically--
Was SEGA the machine on which we used
to play Contra and Mario and all that?
-SEGA, that's right.
-Yes.
I've played a lot of that.
Contra, Mario Brothers...
Yeah, SEGA exited hardware,
the console business,
a number of years ago,
but still develops games through
a number of different game studios,
and is actually diversified in, like,
hotels, pachinko, and things like that.
Like, a lot of other things as well.
You know, funnily enough, when you said--
when you mentioned earlier,
gaming centres.
When I was a kid growing up,
I'm thinking age six or seven,
there used to be gaming centres
where there would be SEGA machines,
and you would pay per hour,
and play Contra for an hour.
They're more like arcade machines.
Arcade centres, yeah.
Oh, just to finish the loop,
after SEGA, I joined NBCUniversal,
which is a big media company,
and then started this company
about three and a half years ago.
Okay, moving to the youngest one here.
[Animesh] Yeah,
that's what I was thinking.
I've had the shortest professional run
in the gaming industry until now.
-Your online name is 8bit_thug.
-Yeah.
Where was that inspired from?
Do you feel like
you're a thug in real life?
Not really. People do think
that I'm a little bit of, like,
have a bully-ish nature in
the gaming industry, but that's not true.
I think that's just because, you know,
things that I have luckily
been able to do,
which I'm very proud of,
across the last six years.
The name story is very simple.
8bit was my clan name
in a game called Clash Royale,
which I was heavily invested into
as a casual gamer, not professionally.
I was pursuing my CA Inters,
and I had something to do,
because I didn't want to step out,
spend a lot of time studying.
So that was a game
I was heavily invested into.
I made a clan, 8bit.
-That's how the prefix of my name came in.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
And Thug is actually a short form
of Thug Life,
which is also from a song
from a movie called Dictator.
College days, nothing to do.
I said, it's a good name, you know,
getting fascinated by movies.
And then, actually,
when I used to play PUBG MOBILE,
it did not take "8bit Thug Life"
as my full name.
So I left out "Life"
and it's 8bit_thug, and rest is history.
Why 8bit?
8bit, my team name.
Then why did you pick 8bit for your team?
Okay, so, interesting question.
When I was playing Clash Royale,
there were eight people
from across the world, who met
in the game, who founded 8bit.
So, there was one guy from Austria,
couple from US, one from Australia.
So we used to call ourselves eight bits
of the entire clan system.
And then, we all just fell off.
They fell off, and I just continued
the name and established--
I thought that-- Thank you.
I thought that you are, like, you know,
a fan of classic... classic games.
Oh, no, not really.
-[Sean] From 8-bit eras.
-High graphic-intensive games, yeah.
So, I'm gonna ask you most questions
'cause you're the protagonist
of the Indian gaming story in a way,
or the career in gaming.
Right.
You came from a non-gaming background,
and today,
you're a professional gamer in India.
So, tell us the story from the beginning,
and then I'll ask you things like
money, opportunity, all of that.
So, how did you enter gaming?
Right, so I'll go back to the beginning.
Actually, I was--
I come from a middle-class family.
My father is a chartered accountant.
My sister is a chartered accountant.
I was pursuing--
You're gonna get trolled for calling
chartered accountant middle class,
but continue.
-[laughter]
-Uh, no.
Yeah, but it is a story.
Even I realised right now that how--
how I was in a middle-class segment
when my father was a CA,
but, all right, that's a different story.
And I was pursuing CA. My life goal
was inspired from Hrithik Roshan, ZNMD.
Goldman Sachs. I was doing CFA.
I cleared CFA Level I.
I pursued FRM. I cleared its Level 1.
But I did all of this when
I was shy of 24, like, six years back.
So I realised--
And I used to play a lot of games,
but not professionally, just play games,
watch some of the biggest streamers
at that point, like Ninja, Shroud,
and a game called Fortnite,
which is still one of the very popular
titles, caught my attention.
I don't know why.
Like, today, I have an answer
why people watch games,
but, then, I did not have an answer,
and I used to wake up
at 6:30 a.m., Indian time,
in Bangalore, just to watch Ninja
or these guys go live.
Because of the time zone difference--
They used to--
Why? I still don't get it.
When I can play...
-I guess one can say the same about sport.
-That's the answer.
The question itself is the answer.
I have never watched anybody's stream,
but I'm trying to wrap my head around
why is it so much fun
to watch someone play a video game.
I think the nature of video games
that's being played,
the competitiveness that it brings,
the storyline that it brings,
I think a lot of great-- greatest content
creators are great storytellers.
So they bring a different angle, too,
apart from the story
that is within the game.
So those are a few things
that really holds the audience together.
Also, the competitive side
is the biggest part of it.
-So, wait, somebody is watching a game...
-[Animesh] Right.
...there is a content creator, on top
of the game, who's giving commentary,
-and you're watching the commentary?
-Right.
Because, you know, the way--
I think when you play story-mode games--
Story-mode games are games
which have, you know, a particular story,
and once you finish the story,
the game is done.
You don't need to play it again.
I think a lot of the greatest
content creators
that I've seen are big gamers,
they are excellent storytellers.
Give me some examples.
I think if you look at a story-mode game,
something like God of War,
very popular game way back
in my school days as well,
I used to play it on the PS2.
-So, once the story is over, it's done.
-It's done, the game is done.
And then you move on
to the next one. Yeah.
And then there are games
like GTA that go on forever.
Then there have been games
like Grand Theft Auto that go on forever.
So that's one part of watching streams
or content.
The second part is, obviously,
when you play games like BGMI or Valorant,
which have a competitive angle to it,
which have a win condition to it.
So, you know, when some of the famous
names who have represented India,
who have played tournaments,
won in those tournaments,
and when they go out and show it
to the public how it's done,
I think that really catches
the attention of a lot of people.
I think it has evolved
over the last three, four years.
We have a lot of fun elements
because it's a very--
You know, these games like BGMI, Valorant,
where you're playing as a squad,
it has a lot of fun elements to it
because you are connecting socially
to each other, you are talking.
So those conversations become fun.
I mean, like, why did we use--
Even I have watched Kyunki Saas Bhi
Kabhi Bahu Thi. What was it?
It was just those conversations--
-How old are you? 28, no?
-28.
That was my era,
Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi.
No, but my era also.
But I was in class one.
You must have seen the later Tulsis
and Mihirs, not the original ones.
[Animesh] Yeah, possibly,
but I have seen all their deaths.
-I have seen five Mihirs, I guess.
-Not Smriti Irani.
No, I have seen Smriti Irani. Yeah.
-She was so good, right?
-Yeah, she was good. Definitely.
So I believe that that's the reason
why people watch games.
It's just about-- they play the game,
now they relate to it. It's like cricket.
You have played cricket,
everyone has played
or at least heard a lot about cricket,
now you're getting to--
When you see IPL, you get to see
a different angle of cricket.
Believe me, T20 World Cup
is never the same as IPL.
The masala that comes with IPL
is the reason why
so many people are glued to it.
Like, you know,
it becomes a festival in India.
I think that's the case with people
watching gaming streamers.
You know, it becomes a different version
of that game for them.
And while you're watching a stream,
are you all talking to each other?
While I'm watching, if I'm a viewer,
I'll be chatting with other people
who are watching my stream.
That's what happens on YouTube
and Twitch or Loco, as a matter of fact.
But, as a player, if I'm playing
a solo-person story-mode game,
then I might not be chatting
with anyone else,
but I'm playing squad games,
I'll be chatting with my teammates.
-I'm gonna blatantly ask a question.
-[Animesh] Right.
As an Indian full-time gamer,
how much do successful streamers,
gamers make in India?
How viable is it
as a "profession" profession?
I think it's very skewed,
to be very honest.
The top gamers and top streamers
make a lot of money, and they are--
Like, if you go
to the bottom of the chart,
people are not making money at all.
Describe "lot."
Who's the number one gamer?
$1 million comfortably in a year.
-This is a gamer.
-This is a gaming content creator.
-It has to be a streamer at the other end.
-Who's the top in India?
I think it could be MortaL,
sc0ut, Mythpat,
-and Payal--
-[Sean] Like, a few million subscribers
-on YouTube.
-Yeah, million subscribers.
Then we have techno gamers.
They are comfortably making,
you know, money around that number.
-And this money comes from?
-Brand endorsements plus content.
Brand endorsements
really form a big chunk.
-YouTube content?
-Yeah, YouTube content.
-YouTube or Instagram.
-Is it like PewDiePie?
I remember looking at YouTube
for a long time.
PewDiePie had the largest subscribers.
-This is like that?
-Sort of, yes.
He has been an inherent gamer.
Like, he has played games
for quite a bit on his channel.
So something of that kind.
Okay, remove content creators.
[clears throat]
-"Gamer" gamer.
-A "gamer" gamer,
I would say, people who have played
at the highest level of esports,
that is playing official tournaments
for a franchise or--
Not a franchise, we don't have franchises,
but for a registered esports team,
I think they could be doing
close to 30, 35 lakhs a year
by just playing games professionally.
And how many of these people are there?
-Thousands.
-Uh, not really.
I don't think at 35 lakhs, it's 1,000.
It could be the top 150. Right.
Because it's very limited.
Where else in this domain
can young people make money in India?
Streamer, gamer, then?
Okay, so, now this is where I wanted
to come to the conversation that,
you know, you were having with Joseph.
What I feel is that
India does not really--
So, if you look at the Indian market,
gaming boomed in India, mid-2019.
It's exactly when it started booming,
and COVID happened,
and the gaming industry
just blew off the lids.
I believe, if you compare
the Indian gaming trajectory
to Western and European markets--
like European and American markets,
you realise we paced in--
the graph was very steep.
We moved at a very fast pace.
We're paced really well.
Gaming in India grew by leaps and bounds
compared to the pace
at which other countries were coming in.
But that is the consumption part of it.
India surpassed US and Brazil
in terms of mobile game downloads.
India has 568 million online gamers.
So numbers are great.
But there was a big void in the system,
which was this,
that we did not have the proper...
correct roles defined.
People did not know
what jobs are available,
but people did not know, apart from being
a MortaL or a sc0ut or becoming a gamer,
there are other hundred domains
where you can enter the gaming industry.
So I believe that
we are too young for that.
The industry is too young for that.
India will produce the best of games
in the coming years,
but it's not gonna happen
at least for the next five years.
Why?
I believe that building games
are super expensive.
From what I have studied-- I might
be wrong, and someone can correct me.
I don't believe
there were enough funds in India
funding game development in India,
just, like, all the gaming funds,
even Krafton's incubator
was announced early this year.
And then there's Lumikai, and then,
I think even MPL is building a game.
But all of this happened
in the last three, four years.
So, if there were dreams,
you know, when we talk about exodus,
talent exodus from India,
if there were dreams eight years back
about building a game in India,
who would fund it?
That's the point.
You know, I was just speaking
to one of your teammates--
I feel like money always follows talent.
It does.
But then, I believe that there needs to be
a base for that ecosystem.
I mean, like, eight years ago,
if someone would have gone and said,
I need $2 million or $3 million
to build a game,
no-one would have given
that person that money.
I believe that. I could be wrong here,
but that's what I feel,
because I watched the industry
only for the last seven, eight years,
so I think that is the problem.
So I think, right now, it's doing good.
The money has just started to come in.
There are small studios
that are trying to work really hard,
and we'll have a good game,
and we'll have that point
where we hold India's talent to India
and build good games.
And also, if you look at it,
even he was mentioning it,
China has a stronghold.
Tencent makes games that no-one else can.
That is one problem
that the entire world is facing.
So I believe that
India will make its mark,
but we need to give it time to breathe.
Like, let it breathe.
Let this industry breathe.
We have talents.
We have people who are now keen on
developing games.
Because now they see the money coming in.
I believe-- You said,
"Money follows talent."
I believe, in India,
talent goes where the money lies.
-Both ways.
-Both ways. It is actually both ways.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
-But I would say that,
if you look at Turkey, for example, right,
you had a few studios
that had pretty big success there.
Peak Games and now Dream Games.
And then, now there's a flood of money
rushing to Turkey, right?
And so, similarly, if India had just
a few successes on a global stage,
I'm sure there would be a rush of money
that would come here as well.
There's already
a number of global funds, right?
There hasn't even been one
outside of Ludo?
There's been Raji, which did pretty well.
-Which one?
-Raji. It's a game
-that was launched on Steam.
-[Sean] Ah, Raji. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But then, it's an indie-ish--
It's an indie game, but it did okay-ish.
And I believe that what, now, Indus--
-SuperGaming is building Indus.
-[Sean] Mm.
It's a very promising title.
Even MPL is doing UGW,
Underworld Gang Wars.
So, let's see.
I think there are games coming out,
and I believe that India will have
great games come out
because, you know, I have seen
Indian gamers are built different.
We haven't had, you know,
the cricket moment of '83 yet
-for Indian esports.
-[Sean] Mm.
But once that happens,
the boom should come in.
Are the incumbent Indian market leaders
helping out?
Like Nitish, on your right?
-[laughter]
-We are very focused on our ROI.
[Animesh] Definitely.
I got great help from NODWIN,
and I'm shooting for Krafton tomorrow.
I have a shoot at 6:00 a.m.
Okay.
So if I were a 20-year-old...
young guy or girl,
how do I make money in gaming?
I love gaming. I play it in my free time.
My parents and my peers
are giving me a hard time,
saying that I'm wasting time and money
and resources gaming.
What is the path
to build a successful career,
path of least resistance in gaming?
So, I'll talk about the path
to becoming a gamer.
Very hard truth.
If you're a 20-year-old, I have said it
on record, and I always say it,
gaming cannot be the only thing
that you are pursuing, in India right now.
You need to have a back-up.
You need to have a back-up plan.
If you come from a business family,
you are pursuing your studies,
you need to continue doing that.
Continue gaming as a passion
until you are at the right place,
in front of the right person,
and at the right stage
where you get to show your gaming talent.
When I talk about India's top gamers,
professional gamers or content creators,
I believe they are nothing.
There could be hundreds, thousands,
lakhs of more skilled gamers
and better content creators
sitting at home.
But it's so much about luck
that they were at the right place
at the right time.
The timing matters so much.
I wouldn't have been sitting here
if I wouldn't have taken that break
for a year from my academic career.
Plus, the game--
I started streaming on 20th July--
But if you don't do it full-time,
how do you compete with
the international ones doing it full-time?
Coming to the international stage
is a very, very long story.
If you are actually
getting a chance to compete,
that means you have made it nationally.
I am also saying, to make it nationally,
it's a very big luck factor.
-Because-- To explain--
-What is... what is talent?
I know, in cricket, talent is timing...
time, maybe you have more time
before you hit a ball,
body, physical strength, all of that.
What distinguishes one gamer
from another in terms of talent?
Understanding of the game,
the biggest thing.
I think, every game
which is competitive in nature
has so many strategical aspects to it,
yet you need to give it real time
to understand it.
And, believe me,
a person who gives lot of time--
So, there's a thing called meta.
Meta is like, what is something
that is dominating the--
Which strategy is dominating
the game right now?
So how does a meta change?
What is that strategy that changes?
There is someone spending
so much time on the game
to bring out something different
that gets him a win condition.
Like, you know, he starts winning games,
and that's when everyone else adopts it.
So I think talent is about
that strategical input
that you are bringing to a game.
Apart from that, if you are playing
a first-person shooter or shooting game,
the reflexes matter a lot,
how fast you react to situations.
So, I had another agenda today,
like, an ulterior motive, almost.
Our audience who we speak to
are upcoming entrepreneurs in India
who are trying to build a business.
We try and give them information
about different industries.
We have a grant programme
where we try and give them some funding,
somebody really young who wants
to build something with promise.
And we also try and connect them
from a community standpoint.
So we will put you guys in front
of a bunch of really inquisitive people
who want to be in gaming
and make it a career.
So the first thing I wanted to know is,
where is young India spending time?
You guys have the gaming lens.
If I were to make the assumption...
Not assumption,
I think there is data for this.
People under the age of 30 in India
are spending a lot more time
on social media.
They are spending a lot
more time on gaming.
They are spending less time watching TV.
They are spending, strangely,
less time watching sport.
So the amount of time somebody
really young is spending on cricket
is lesser than it was 10 years ago,
15 years ago.
They're spending lesser time playing
physical sports or physical activities.
Print media is going down.
Online media is going up,
but not enough to totally compensate
for print media going down.
So if I'm a young 16-year-old boy,
I have 8, 10, 12 free hours in a day.
Let's say eight.
How much time of that eight
is going where... today?
Where was it yesterday?
And where will it be at tomorrow?
This is essential for anybody looking
to build any kind of company in India
because we need to know where the youth
are going to be spending time tomorrow.
So I'll go to each one of you,
and we don't have to, like,
narrow our lens down to India.
You could talk about America,
you could talk about Southeast Asia...
Who would like to go first? Nitish?
No, sure, I can go first.
So, I think, if you go back...
if I go back to my own generation, right,
and if I go back to my school days
or when I was 15 or 16 or even younger,
cricket was where our life
would revolve around, right?
You would play cricket all the time
with your building friends.
You would watch cricket.
I remember, in school, I would
even wake up at 5:00 in the morning
to watch a test match happening
in South Africa or Australia
before going to school, right?
Your whole life revolved around
this thing called cricket.
I especially think,
the younger you're getting--
Your question was, "Below 30," right?
But I have a thesis here
that the younger you get,
the velocity or the amount of time being
spent on gaming is increasing.
Right? So, a 15, 16-year-old today
is probably spending
maximum time on social media,
some on sports,
and a decent amount of time on gaming.
The stats say 40% of their time
on social media and maybe 30% on gaming.
But the rate of change in time spent
is going up in social media
even faster than gaming.
No, but if you go even a little younger,
I'm saying from experience,
I've got two young kids
who are below 12,
social media, they are not even allowed,
to be honest, a lot.
But the rest of the time is only gaming.
-And what games have they played?
-They've evolved.
First, they used to play my games,
which was Kiddopia, which is very popular.
So I'll do a shameless plug.
I like how he plugged himself.
Listed company--
[Nitish] I'm trained.
Three years trained now. [chuckles]
But now they've moved to Minecraft. Right?
So both the kids
are playing Minecraft. Okay?
-Sitting next to each other.
-They wake up at 6:00 in the morning.
I wake them up sharp at 6:00
in the morning
'cause they have to leave
for school at 7:00.
The first thing they will do
is pick up their respective iPads
and start Minecraft.
So, 6:00 to 6:30 is their gaming time,
their wake-up alarm, you can say.
So they'll do Minecraft,
but the more important thing is,
on YouTube or on the TV,
they're on YouTube
and watching Minecraft videos.
They're watching Minecraft streamers.
Then my daughter recently
had a birthday, so I asked her,
"What birthday theme do you want?"
-And she wanted to do--
-How old is your daughter?
She's just turned seven.
She wanted a theme--
She said Aphmau.
I didn't even know what Aphmau is,
so I googled it.
It's supposedly a girl
called Jessica in the US,
who's a popular Minecraft streamer.
And she wanted a whole birthday theme
around that...
streamer, right?
And you have merchandise
around that streamer now,
so she wants me to buy that for her.
So what I realised is,
for these younger kids,
what cricket was for us
has been replaced by gaming.
With their friends,
the topic of discussion is gaming.
What are you doing? Which game?
Et cetera, right?
So it's all revolving around gaming.
And therefore, I'm betting that
as this generation grows up,
which is your today's five-year-old,
ten-year-old,
into the next four, five years
where gaming will be, by far,
the primary source of entertainment.
But why not social media?
'Cause when they grow to be 16,
you'll allow them
and they'll graduate to that, right?
Probably, they will, but I think
they will still be far more ingrained
because they've done this gaming
from the age of two.
My daughter started gaming
at one and a half.
So I think it comes
very naturally to them,
rather than adopting to it
as a lot of the current generation has.
So if I am 20 and I want to sell something
when I'm 25, I'm building a business,
I'm an entrepreneur, wannabe entrepreneur,
do you think I should focus on gaming,
social media,
sport, movies, TV?
What audience should I be building for--
towards?
-If you want to sell to the audience?
-Yeah.
-I think gaming--
-Continue.
I think gaming is a great place
because of the kind of engagement
you have on gaming, right.
When you're playing a game,
you're very focused
and interacting with the game
versus watching it passively.
Let's say watching... content passively.
-[Nikhil] Right.
-So if you're selling to a gamer...
it's a big potential,
which is why
something we've been looking at is,
this new word coming up,
g-commerce, right,
which is selling via games.
It's a new trend which is starting
to pick up, and we'll see where it goes.
-But, yeah, I think--
-And how do I sell to a gamer?
Say I'm starting a chocolate company,
and I want to sell--
I think the gaming crowd
will be three times as big
as they are today, in ten years.
How do you start selling to them?
Do you go to Discord, Twitch,
streaming platforms, chat boxes?
I think the best way
is in-game monetisation.
You know, I think that if the crowd
is shifting, the trend is shifting
towards spending more time on games,
then I would want to market it
inside the game.
I mean, like, if you look at Hero,
your recent partnership
that you announced yesterday,
now, I'm guessing Hero will bring
their bike skins within the game.
And if they are targeting it
for the Gen-Z, the 125R model,
I think they've hit the right chord.
Because, like we see,
people are not spending time on TV.
If people are not watching cricket,
and if they're spending time
on social media and gaming,
then you just split your spends
into the two things.
You have your ads running,
and then you have things
that they're spending time on
integrated into it.
So I believe,
that is the best way to go about it,
but you will have more insight.
Yeah, I have a very good example.
Like, my kids love to watch MrBeast,
the YouTube...
Crazy-- Kids are getting crazy.
And then, I think he has built
some brands. Chocolate.
-Yeah, yeah.
-[Sean] Er, Feastables?
Feastables chocolate.
They-- My kids don't really remember
Hershey's, but kids remember Feastables.
So when I went to GDC
just a few weeks back,
their request was just-- only one thing,
-buy lots of Feastables chocolate.
-[Nitish] Feastables. [chuckling]
So that they can have it,
-also they can give out to friends.
-[Nitish] Yeah, yeah.
So it's also kind of like
showing, kind of, status.
Like, I have Feastables
which can be bought from the US
and then give it to friends.
It's big.
I paid, like, 1,000 bucks
for a Feastable which tastes the same
like Amul chocolate. [chuckles]
-They're the same, they're the same,
but different labels.
Nikhil, I've got a very
different perspective.
Nikhil, I think one other way to think
about opportunity for a young person is--
And certainly, I think, one way to think
about it is current, kind of, demand side.
But the other way to think about it
is more on the supply side,
and also, in terms of new demand.
I think the one thing that cannot
be ignored, in my opinion,
and I believe we're living in a very
unprecedented time, is, essentially, AI.
And if you see the growth of AI today,
and we were at GDC,
the number of people building tools
and capabilities with AI is incredible.
It's moving so fast.
So if I were to advise somebody younger,
I would say that, in my opinion,
I think AI is going to be
as big as the Internet,
potentially bigger
in terms of impact to society.
And so, from that lens,
I think that you wanna be thinking
about a cross-strategy,
meaning you wanna learn AI as a base,
but then cross it with something else.
Explain. What does that mean?
For example, AI-cross-gaming.
So you're gonna learn AI, but then
you're also gonna develop depth
in a different industry or sector
so that you can take the AI capabilities
and bring that to that sector.
So whether it's AI-cross-gaming
or banking or pharmaceuticals or whatever.
Right? So, then,
I would recommend for younger people
to find an area of interest,
but then, also develop their expertise
and knowledge in AI
so that they can take those capabilities
into that space.
And then, I think, besides that,
the one other thing that we're seeing
is a fundamental shift.
And so, for people who are watching
that are interested in gaming,
I think the big shift that is happening
is from a development perspective.
-And it's something that--
-Before you go there,
if I were to try and incorporate AI
into my vocabulary
as a gamer, as a young gamer,
what tools should I get familiar with?
What should I learn?
Well, I would say, like,
in the current state,
I would probably learn all of the tools.
For example?
So, whether it's ChatGPT or Claude 3
or, you know, some of the newer tools
that are being developed using those,
there's a lot of applications in gaming
in terms of, like, conversational AI
and things of that nature.
So there's a lot of services
being developed.
So, becoming familiar with
the services and the capabilities
that are being developed,
but, on top of that,
to then learn AI in more depth.
So, what is a large language model?
What are the kind of models
that are out there today?
Whether it's LlaMA or other open-source
models and things of that nature.
So, what I would recommend for AI
is, basically, extreme depth.
Learn as much as you can
at a foundational, fundamental level,
and then... and then,
again, that other industry.
And if you had to...
name two subsets of AI
that I should begin focusing on,
specifically for gaming,
what would they be?
Well, I mean, I think the biggest push
right now is conversational AI, which is--
You wouldn't say something
like Unreal Engine or--
Oh, well, I mean, I think Unreal and Unity
are game development engines, right?
And so, I don't think those--
They're trying to build
some AI capabilities there,
for example, to potentially
write code or to automate things,
but I don't think AI has as big
of an impact on the game engines
as they would...
Probably, more on a UGC platform.
-So I think you'll start--
-What is UGC?
User-generated content.
And so, if you were to look
at some of the UGC platforms,
the user-generated content platforms
like Roblox or UEFN,
which is Epic's version of Roblox.
Can you just explain?
Like, think I'm a layman, proper idiot.
What is...
So, Roblox is the world's biggest
user-generated content platform.
Basically, what Roblox is,
is a platform on which...
you know, actually, many kids go,
and they build game experiences
based upon a set of tools that Roblox
provides, into the Roblox game world.
And so, you can go to Roblox,
and there's a bunch of different games
that the creators have made.
So, in Roblox,
creators that are often very young
will create these games using the tools
that have been provided by Roblox.
And Epic, now, has something similar
called UEFN,
Unreal Engine for Fortnite, which kind of
builds these experiences within Fortnite.
And I don't need any prior knowledge
to be able to utilise these?
You need some depth of understanding.
So, like, Roblox, for example,
uses a scripting language called Luau.
So there is some knowledge required.
But, you know, I would say
the user-generated content platforms
are also a way in which
someone from India could make,
potentially, millions of dollars. Right?
-I think, like, the top creator--
-Explain.
[Nitish] I just wanna add there
because I've been very actively involved
in that whole thing right now,
what he's just referring to.
I just did a Zoom call recently
with a 19-year-old kid
who has a game called Blox Fruits,
and it makes something like
$60 million a year, or something,
in revenue.
After that, I've been trying to migrate
my kid from Minecraft to Roblox.
-[laughter]
-Every day, I try that, right?
So, it's... it's absolutely crazy,
and he's absolutely right in terms--
-Okay, tell me, that kid, 19-year-old...
-Yeah.
...me, idiot,
don't know anything about gaming,
know little bit about computers,
can't code, nothing. Okay?
Step one, step two, step three, step four,
that kid making $60 million,
name those four steps.
No, I mean... coding is one thing, right,
understanding some of these rules.
But these kids are kind of hackers, right?
-They've done it hands-on--
-But I am not. How do I do it?
So, I would say, like, first,
you need to learn the platform
and then learn the kinds of things
that the Roblox players are looking for.
And so, the experience on Roblox
is different from a mobile game,
is different from other kinds of games
because it's very social in nature.
And people are in Roblox to not just play
but to meet and interact
with other players.
And so, step one would be learning Roblox,
understanding the kinds of games
that are popular,
and forming a hypothesis
on why they are popular.
And this is not complicated?
I can spend X amount of time--
There are 13-year-old kids
making games on Roblox.
-It's not that complicated.
-[Nitish] Yeah.
And the second thing
would be to learn the tools,
Luau and the Roblox creator platform.
And I think the third thing
would just be to just go,
just build as many games as you can,
and to then get those repetitions in
as far as, like,
building and learning your craft,
and experimenting to see what works
and what doesn't work.
-I mean, if I may add--
-[Nitish] Yeah, yeah.
Erm, my kids are actually trying
to make a game on Roblox.
So the first, you-- I mean,
if I may answer your question,
you have to love playing games on Roblox
or any other platform first.
So you play maybe
100 different kinds of games first.
You like it, you like this,
you don't like that.
And then, it's a very human nature,
like, if you like certain board games
or certain games outside your home,
you want to change a little bit
and make it more fun with your friends.
That is very-- You know, the same thing
is happening in Roblox and Minecraft.
There are some games that you like,
then you want to create something similar,
but in your own way.
That's how, actually,
I think things are starting.
Yeah, no, it's great.
And just-- I wanted to also highlight that
the AI he spoke about on UGC, right?
And I was just hearing the podcast
of the founder of Roblox,
and they're talking about now introducing,
or they've introduced,
or they're talking about launching soon,
is real-time translation.
So, when the kids are talking
to each other,
let's say I'm an Indian
and there's another Japanese kid,
and I'm talking in Hindi
to you, Japanese kid,
it's gonna translate in real-time.
So kids can actually talk in
their own language and communicate...
It translates Hindi into Japanese,
and it's fantastic.
So, the way AI is being used
in such applications
-to actually bridge and connect--
-I have one confusion here.
You were not talking about...
creating content around the game,
because you said UGC.
You're talking about
actually building the game.
Yeah, I think there's a couple
of different opportunities, right?
So there is an opportunity
that we haven't talked about,
which is building games for UGC platforms.
Name a UGC platform.
Roblox and UEFN.
Those are the two biggest right now.
When you say UGC,
my head is going to YouTube.
-[laughter]
-User-generated content.
-Yeah.
-It could be anything.
Yeah, and I think, you know, we see plenty
of examples of games built by kids
that are making tens
of millions of dollars,
like, Adopt Me! probably makes
like $70 million to that team.
Erm, so that's certainly an opportunity.
And then there's the opportunity
that I think is more general
outside of UGC platforms,
which is, just by understanding
AI and gaming,
to then find a specific opportunity
to apply AI to gaming.
And I think, certainly,
what we're gonna see is,
we're gonna see a massive shift
in how development occurs.
It's gonna change
dramatically and radically.
And as I mentioned, this kind of depends
on your perspective of the world.
But I actually think that this is gonna be
an incredibly rare moment in time
and probably, you know, and I believe,
unprecedented in history,
where you're gonna have the opportunity
for some kid in India
to become, like, a billionaire
as a single-person company, right?
Because one of the things
that we're seeing is
this shift from what I call
long vector development.
By vector, I mean, time, cost,
resources, things like that,
to small vector development.
And so, today, you've got a lot of games
that have huge budgets,
100, 200, 300 million with huge teams.
But the promise of AI,
and it's hard to see right now
because it's hard for people
to think exponentially.
But when you see the numbers, this is like
when Jeff Bezos started Amazon.
He saw the dramatic growth
in adoption of the Internet.
When you see that kind of--
What we're currently seeing is,
we're seeing that growth start to happen
and that investment starting to happen.
But as that happens, you're gonna be able
to then have very small teams
build incredible games that have
massive reach, massive distribution.
The mobile platforms, iOS and Google Play,
they have billions of people.
Right? They're billion-person platforms.
We've also had an example where,
talking about UGC,
there was a creator
that learned their skills on Roblox,
but then, created a mobile--
Sorry, a PC game called Lethal Company
that became a number one game on Steam.
So, similarly, erm, I do think that
this is a new era,
and this is the time where I hope...
that the young Indian people out there
listening to this podcast
will kind of wake up and realise that this
moment in time in history is very rare.
This is the time for them
to really, like, focus, learn,
and to make something great.
Because I don't think there's gonna be
that many more opportunities
in the world after this.
After this is done, can we all,
in consultation,
put out a process doc of recommendations
of what a young person needs to learn?
-Yeah.
-[Nikhil] Yeah?
They say mid-core and core is 0.4 billion,
casual and hyper-casual is 0.7 billion.
Can you explain what that means?
Anyone? Sean?
Mm, yeah, I mean, mid-core-ish.
Mid-core, like, hardcore games
include BGMI,
and maybe other shooter games
and some of, er, maybe sports games,
simulation games.
So how do you...
how do you justify this mid--
How do you categorise mid-core,
this 0.4 billion?
Mid-core games require
quite focused attention--
-And a lot of investment?
-To make the game?
-Yeah?
-Yeah, generally, yes.
-But there is also, like, a big range.
-Mm-hmm.
But compared to typical hyper-casual
or hybrid-casual games,
it requires more resources,
that's for sure.
You guys wanna comment?
My only understanding of the Indian market
is that it does seem that
it's highly skewed to shooters.
It does seem like shooters are making
the majority of the money in India.
-A lot of the--
-They fall in mid-core? In that bucket?
Mid-core, yeah, yeah.
And then it seems like the rest
of the money is being made
from, like, ludo as well as, like,
cricket and things like that.
And, actually, it's a surprising number
for me that mid-core and core market
-is so big, because hyper-casual is--
-Not so big.
0.4 billion, 400 million for India.
400 million for India is still-- I feel
that it's pretty big that, you know--
-Most of it, he takes home.
-Yeah.
-[laughter]
-[Nikhil] Yeah?
What's your market share for BGMI?
BGMI, I would say...
[chuckling]
-5-10%.
-That's all?
[Nitish] He's being modest.
-[Animesh] Modest.
-[laughter]
I don't know about that. [chuckles]
Is the money going back to South Korea?
-Some of it, yes.
-[laughter]
But we invest in Indian tech startups.
He invested in companies like Nazara.
-He can always invest more.
-[Nikhil] Right.
Okay, so I got an understanding
of what is mid-core.
What is casual and hyper-casual,
which is growing the fastest, apparently?
Well, I think hyper-casual is dying down,
but it's really, like--
the level of complexity
is another way to think about it.
Are you saying casual and hyper-casual
need lesser money?
-Yeah.
-Generally to build,
because they're simpler games,
less complexity.
I would say that the other kind of nuance
behind those games
is they typically have lower,
what's called retention days.
So, like, a hyper-casual game often might
retain a user for like five days or...
But I think
hyper-casual's starting to die.
Give me some examples.
I think Candy Crush and Counter-Strike.
"Hyper-casual" casual is Candy Crush
and "mid-core" core is--
Well, I would say Candy Crush
is more casual.
-[Nitish] Casual, yeah.
-Yeah.
-Hyper-casual is more like--
-Voodoo.
-Yeah, the Voodoo games, right?
-Voodoo games.
[indistinct]
Well, I would say even Ludo
is more casual rather than hyper-casual.
Hyper-casual, typically, has a bunch
of forced ads and things like that.
-[Sean] Mm.
-Example?
Well, it's like... The old, old examples
were, like, Snake.io
-and all the other dot-io games.
-[Nikhil] On the old Nokia phones.
Something like a Pac-Man?
-Pac-Man is also still...
-[Nitish and Joseph] Casual.
But why is that dying?
That seems like the simplest thing
for people to--
[Joseph] It's, uh-- Okay, I mean,
I don't know how deep you wanna go
because we can go very deep here,
but it has to do with, mainly, Apple,
and, basically, this thing called IDFA--
-We're really gonna go into--
-Give us the summary.
The summary is you can't do
targeting anymore
-because of Apple's privacy policies.
-[Nitish] Privacy.
And so, the ability for
the hyper-casual games
that are largely driven off
of an ad-driven model
to then make money off of those ads
through targeting is going away.
And Apple just doesn't like
hyper-casual games.
But I'll tell you this, when I used to
play Snake on my old Nokia 3310 phone,
there was no advertising.
-It came bundled with the phone.
-It was offline.
Right, and it, kind of, in mobile,
it kind of morphed into a model
where you have a super casual
gameplay experience.
But throwing in a bunch of ads
has been the current,
like, you know, the manifestation
of how hyper-casual evolved into.
So, is that ad model moving
from ad to in-app purchases?
Yes. So, now, it's moving more
to what's being called "hybrid-casual",
-where--
-Can you explain?
A hybrid-casual is
more of a hybrid between
more of a casual or mid-core game
and a hyper-casual game
with less reliance on advertising,
because of things like
the lack of targeting,
because of privacy and things like that.
Say, if I were building a game today,
let's say I followed the three steps
that we would put out from the--
I would ignore hyper-casual.
I would not look at it.
So, say a young guy has done
the Nvidia free course,
the Michigan University free course,
he's on Roblox,
he has learnt how to create a game.
Now, when I start building the game,
should I plan to monetise my game
via in-app purchases versus pay-to-play?
So, it depends on the game, right?
So I would say if you're making
more of a mid-core or hardcore game,
it's generally a heavier IAPCU.
What is IAPCU?
-IAP is just in-app purchase.
-[Nikhil] Right.
Right. So, not advertising-based.
And then, the more casual
to hyper-casual it is,
the more advertising
you would integrate into the game.
But I think, to the point on,
like, if you were learning AI
and trying to figure out how to apply it,
you could apply it to making a game,
you could apply it to figuring out
a completely new kind of game to make
using AI.
For example, like, were the AI--
Like Dungeons & Dragons where the AI
is suddenly the Dungeon Master.
Now, it can do
all the campaigns for you, right?
There's gonna be new capabilities
and new games
that are enabled because of AI.
And the third area of opportunity
would be looking at AI
and trying to pick a specific segment
in the game development process
that you can help reduce the cost of
or automate through AI.
Explain.
So, for example, like,
in game development,
there's a lot of different teams
that do different things, right?
So, there's engineering, there's art,
there's product management.
But if you could use AI
to provide a better tool
or to automate
one of the workflows there--
Like, so, for example,
right now, coders can use AI tools
-to help write code for them.
-Like Copilot.
Yes.
Also, AI is being used
to generate manuals.
Product managers can use AI
to do data analysis
by just dumping in spreadsheets
and saying, you know,
"Visualise some stuff for me."
And, so there's a lot of different things
that AI can be applied to.
And so, then it would just be
figuring out,
"Okay, what is a big problem
that I can apply AI against?"
Right?
Can you give me, like, a low-hanging fruit
that you think is an opportunity today?
Well, I mean, I can give you
specific examples
of what people are doing right now, right?
So, the big thing right now,
there's two companies, Inworld and Convai,
that have been funded
for conversational AI.
Meaning, right now, NPCs in games,
the non-player characters--
So, like, in an MMO, you can go to a shop
and then there's a shopkeeper
that talks to you.
Well, the dialogue
that happens often with,
whether it's an in-story character
or with a shopkeeper
that has a very limited amount
of dialogue,
is through, like, a dialogue tree.
So, you can use these behaviour trees
to, like, code what is said and not said.
Or you could use a large language model
and give the background behind a character
in a large language model,
understanding the context of the game
and that character
that they're supposed to personify,
can then just naturally respond to people
in real-time.
So that's, like, one application.
There's other applications,
where there's a company
that's trying to automate
the art process, right?
So, like, where you, like, think of
a character or a building,
you create the model for it, you put it
in the game, and things like that.
There are some companies
that are just trying to make it
so that you do sketches and then
it just automatically goes into the game
and completes the whole workflow, right?
So there's a lot of different areas
that you can potentially apply AI to.
And again, this is why
it's like the cross-something.
So I wanna learn product management
in gaming super well
and then try to figure out
areas to attack.
Or I wanna learn art super well
and figure out areas to attack.
That's the way
I would be thinking about it.
Animesh, after listening to this,
where do you think the opportunity is
for someone young?
I still feel, obviously,
this is a very big opportunity.
It's futuristic from all I have read,
all I have seen.
But I believe that if someone wants
to start building a game tomorrow
and actually go out in the market
in the next three, four years,
that data where you mentioned
that 40% of time is going to social media,
I think that is very key to India
sticking to mobile gaming,
and my generation people,
the younger generation,
sticking to mobile phones.
So, I think, even if I look
at my gaming journey
and how I got into games...
After a break from gaming
for a good seven, eight years...
I think after class eight,
I haven't played too many games
until I got into college and had some
free time and I was away from home.
So it all started with Facebook.
And then I started playing maybe
a Zynga game inside Facebook.
And then, on Facebook, I got maybe
a recommendation of a Supercell game
which was Boom Beach.
And then I went into Boom Beach,
but the reason why I continued
to play in Boom Beach
was there's a big social element
attached to that game,
where I could chat with different people,
make a clan, we could strategise,
although it was within the game.
However, what happened next is that
I took that entire set of audience,
we exchanged our numbers within the game
or we went to a Discord server.
But then, we were always
socially connected.
We were chatting, we were conversational.
If I also look at-- So--
And that's been the trend in India,
at least, which I can say very confidently
that people love playing games
which have an element
where they can connect
with existing friends or meet new people.
So you're saying
not so much mid-core games,
but more casual with mobile-first?
Casual, mobile-first, and needs
to have a social meeting element to it.
And how easy or hard is it to build that?
I think it's difficult, not easy to hit
the right chords with Indian audience,
especially with their culture, also.
Like, you know, I believe
that there are a lot of nuances
that they need to be careful about
when you bring the social element
of being connected online.
And I think there is going to be
a lot of scrutiny, lot of tapings,
when they go to build that game.
What is a "taping"?
-Sorry?
-What is a "taping"?
I meant that, you know,
there is going to be a lot of problems
when they try to have two random people
connect online.
Because I believe a lot of games
are facing this trouble even today,
with respect to bullying happening online
or cases that we have had,
because of people not knowing each other
but connecting within games.
So I believe that those are the key things
that need to be sorted,
and because Indian gaming development
market is still evolving,
so these are a few things
that they wouldn't be able to solve
when they are building
in India, for India.
So you are saying young people in India
want to solve
for both community...
-[Animesh] And...
-...and timepass.
Correct. That should be the key factor.
And that is where I believe
that Sean can answer
why BGMI is so successful.
Like, what are those key aspects?
Hmm... Yeah, my understanding--
I mean, people, different people
might have different opinions,
I think, about BGMI
or, like, similar games.
I think it has very good...
Largely speaking, there are two elements
for the success, I believe.
Maybe you guys can add.
So one thing is social aspects,
definitely.
Like, it is most fun when you are playing
with the other squad members,
other three members, as a team,
which you can keep talking
through the voice chat
over the 30-minute or 40-minute sessions,
which gives a good reason for playing
another session, another session,
maybe tomorrow, or next week,
next weekend.
That is one factor.
And the second factor is unpredictability.
It is mostly like the similar elements
in many multiplayer games.
But I think,
the battle royale genre itself,
it has large open-- not really fully open,
but a large map,
like 8x8, 8 km by 8 km.
So there are a lot of elements
of unpredictability
and less repeatability.
So every gameplay feels different.
You cannot really make it
if it is a story-based game, right?
If you play ten hours, 20 hours,
then it's finished.
I've got a slightly different perspective.
I'd love to hear your take on this, Sean.
I don't know if I've ever talked to you
about this before,
but I believe that games are actually
a manifestation of a latent human desire.
So I think that people generally have,
in their psychology,
a need for something.
[Sean] Mm.
And so, I believe that games allow people
to manifest those desires in some way.
Which psychological desire, though?
So, let me give you a few examples.
So, the 35-year-old soccer mom in the US
who's driving her kids to school all day,
going home, washing the dishes,
doing the laundry,
but doesn't feel like there's
much progress happening in her life.
But then, when she plays Candy Crush Saga,
she makes progress,
she can see development.
She can see all these bright lights
and positive reinforcement.
And I also think that
for some guys, you know,
it's like, there's a latent
human desire for war,
-to show that I'm special.
-Yeah.
In battle royale, in particular--
And I agree with you. Right?
And, in terms of, like,
the variability, right?
And there's been studies...
I don't know if you guys are familiar
with the Skinner box, but...
-What is the Skinner box?
-A Skinner box, um...
So, there was a research scientist
named B.F. Skinner who did a study on rats
that showed, like, "How can I get a rat
to press this button more often,
even though there's an electric shock?"
And then they tried
different kinds of ways
to incentivise that rat
to push the button.
And what they found is that
if you provided variable rewards,
then the rat will keep pushing
that button forever.
-Yeah. That's why slot machines work.
-And so--
And the way that battle royale
is structured, it's variable.
And there's two other aspects.
So, one, I remember hearing
an interview with Ninja
who said that the special thing
about battle royale
is that every battle royale
is like a new story
because of that variability aspect.
But the one other thing
I would say is that, on top of that,
plus I think that
it speaks to Indian culture.
Like, I think that Indians have
a latent desire to feel special,
to feel like, "Yes, I won battle royale.
I was the best out of 100 people."
Is that a cultural thing
where Indians feel differently
from Americans?
-I think--
-[Nikhil] The psychology?
Actually, the psychology
is the same for Americans, right?
Because, in America,
shooters are number one.
Battle royale is number one
in the States as well.
-Mm-hmm.
-It's not true for Japan.
In Japan, RPGs are number one,
for whatever reason.
-What are RPGs?
-Role-playing games.
So, they really love role-playing games,
more than shooters.
But, you know, in India and the US,
I think it's a similar psychology.
Battle royale and PUBG
in particular has, though,
is what I call a high climax moment.
-Meaning...
-Did you try?
So, there's, like, one definition of art,
and the definition of art
that I ascribe to
is that, for me, art is something
that makes the user feel something.
So, from that perspective,
that's what
battle royale does really well.
What I believe inherently
is all humans
are permanently chasing status,
status in any way.
I can be really moralistic
about something, really altruistic.
I can vie for sympathy with everything.
I can chase some kind of status.
So when we are talking
about status in gaming,
do you think it's my skill being
better than Sean's, for example,
which is giving me status?
Or is it something more ulterior,
something below that?
I mean, I think status can be gained
in many ways.
So, for the kind of game,
if it's a shooter game, if it's like PUBG,
then it will be skill.
So skill will differentiate you.
Now, I mentioned that I used to work
at a company called FunPlus,
and we worked on a 4X game,
which is more of a...
It's, you march, you build up armies,
you work with other people
to defeat other people.
Like Age of Empires, back in the day.
That's more of a PC 4X game.
I think the most famous 4X game
for mobile is called
-Game of War.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
And one of the things that
we say in the 4X industry is like...
What does 4X stand for?
Uh, explore, ex--
I don't know.
I don't even remember anymore.
[mouths indistinctly]
-[Sean] I don't remember, either.
-[laughs]
Exterminate... something.
Anyway, there's four X's,
but one of the things
that we just talked about is, like,
you know, what would somebody pay
to become famous?
Like, if you could be known
by 30,000 people,
how valuable would that be to you?
What would you pay for that?
Well, guess what?
In 4X games, people do pay it
so that they can be famous.
Famous in the social circle,
inside the game.
Yeah. So you might be,
you know, lok'tar59, but...
And nobody in the real world
knows who you are,
but, in a specific game,
they might be like,
"Oh, my God, that's lok'tar59!"
You know what I'm saying?
So, what you're saying is,
like everything else in the world,
people inside games, that are working,
are chasing status.
That could be one thing.
They could be chasing emotion.
They could be chasing status.
They could be chasing
a feeling of progress.
And I think that different types of games
help people cope with
their latent human desires for something.
And is it very hard
because of the opportunity cost?
If I have spent X amount of time
on a particular game,
derived Y amount of status,
is there a big moat because of that?
I will not switch
from that game to another...
-[Joseph] Yes.
-...'cause I will have to rebuild status.
Is there a way to transition status
from one game to another?
Not as-- As far as I know, not right now.
I mean, that was the...
I'm not sure how familiar you are
with crypto games...
-Mm-hmm.
-...but that was like, what?
One of the things they were trying to do
is to help transfer assets between games,
-but that never really worked out.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
[Joseph] Yet.
As a gamer, it did work out for me.
I mean, like, if I look at it,
I had a very good following,
and people knew me,
8bit_thug in Clash Royale,
and it really helped me transition,
as a gamer, purely as a gamer...
transition well into PUBG MOBILE in India,
and people still knew me
and people would still want to join 8bit
because they knew me from that
and I had a status.
But are you talking about your status
in-game or out of the game?
In-game. In-game. Purely in-game.
Because, that time, it was--
All my friends within the game
were people I have never met.
So I believe that it really helps,
but that's a gamer perspective.
It could be a unique case as well,
but it helped.
So while I was researching today,
for today,
the one thing that seemed to permeate
every domain is
games saw this crazy spike in COVID,
but, right now,
the industry is completely screwed.
People are getting fired.
In most large companies,
from Microsoft to Sony,
games are getting dropped.
And it seems like a fairly tumultuous time
for the industry today.
How far is that true?
I actually don't think it's true.
I don't know if you wanna--
So, like, yes, because of COVID,
there was a huge spike.
But if you look at the overall trajectory,
at least, on the mobile side,
the growth...
Like, if you smooth out COVID,
then there was an over-investment
because of COVID,
and everyone was extrapolating linearly,
and a lot of additional people
were hired and things like that.
And now, we're kind of correcting
on the downside.
But, I mean,
that's a typical business cycle, right?
Yeah. That is happening
in every industry, right?
I know Nitish can't say anything
about this,
-'cause he's in a publicly listed company.
-No, no.
-[overlapping conversations]
-[laughter]
At least, honestly.
[Nitish] I actually answer
this question every quarter, so...
-Yeah.
-[laughter]
But, actually, this happened
with India as well.
But, tell me this, the money, as a gamer,
that you made two years ago...
-Yeah.
-...has it gone down today?
Of course it has. That's what I'm saying.
But it's a correction.
It's best for the industry.
If this correction wouldn't
have happened today--
So, a year earlier, around 2020,
everyone was saying
this is a bubble that's ready
to burst in India first.
But, luckily, it was not a bubble burst,
it was just a slight correction
after all the global crisis that'd hit in.
And it's a correction,
a correction for the good.
Because now, if I look
at my side of the industry,
esports teams, owners,
all those people entering the industry
with the mindset of making quick money,
you cannot make quick money anymore.
So if you look at my company,
when people were over-investing
into their business,
when their P&Ls were in red, deep red,
I was spending the least.
And today, when the market is bad,
you know, "bad"-- in the bad shape
where there's not enough money flowing in,
there's no streaming platform money,
there is no direct money from the brands,
everyone has tightened their grip,
I'm spending the most.
And I have been able to sustain and grow.
So I am growing at a point--
So I think it all comes
from the understanding
of how people perceived...
perceived about Indian gaming
when they entered the market.
Quick buck because of the COVID ride?
Or they wanted to build something
for the next ten, 15, 20 years.
Like, if they had some inspiration
taken from somewhere,
from a team in America
or a team in Europe.
If a gamer entered the YouTube space
to build something for the next 15 years,
or someone was looking
for an overnight success
because there were a lot of users flocking
into YouTube to watch gaming.
So I think that changed everything,
and the correction is for the best.
One thing I didn't ask you is,
your personal journey.
Where do you make the most money from?
Is it your content?
Is it the people you manage?
I make the most money
from people I manage.
The talent management business.
Okay, when I look at establishing
market size in India,
the numbers state that gamers
were 400 million in '21.
In '23, they are 560 million,
going up every year.
This doesn't sound reasonable to me.
Like, India is a country where 2%
of our population pays tax, right?
-[chuckles]
-Like, 25-30 million people, tops.
How are there 560 million gamers in India?
I think this is RMG
and skill-based, combined.
And I'm not sure,
because they would have more data.
-RMG? Real-money gaming?
-Yeah.
I think it's combined, this data.
Because we are talking about
55 crore gamers, I guess.
-568 million. Impossible.
-Yeah.
But...
But I think everybody's a gamer, right?
And one of the things
that we haven't talked about
is how, because of some
of the stuff that happened
between the US and China,
going back to that topic,
a lot of production
is shifting to India, right?
There's gonna be a Tesla factory in India.
There's all sorts of stuff
moving to India,
which should then enable
a bigger middle class in India,
higher disposable income,
which should then enable
a lot of people in India to,
who maybe don't even identify as gamers,
to then spend in games
because they, actually, are gamers.
So, what do you think?
Okay, remove real-money gaming.
How many people in India
are playing games on a PlayStation
or a computer,
versus how many people
are playing on a mobile phone?
And how many people
are doing real-money gaming?
If you had to break that down.
It's all mobile, right?
I think India runs on mobile games.
-Console would be the least.
-[Sean] I think 95-97%...
-95...
-[Nikhil] 95% what?
-[Sean] Mobile.
-[Animesh] Yeah, yeah.
-[Nikhil] Mobile games?
-[all] Yeah.
[Nikhil] And BGMI being the largest?
-[Animesh] Mobile games, could be.
-[Sean] Could be.
But there could be
a casual game like Ludo taking space.
From a revenue perspective, yes.
But I think
the highest-grossing app, uh...
Wait, 97% of what? Not 550 million.
95%...
97% of the whole gaming population.
Sean can tell us.
He'll know the numbers
since he's a market leader.
How many people are playing BGMI in India?
I believe, uh, like,
people who are actually regularly playing
one or two specific games
and, at least, willing to pay--
Maybe they haven't paid at all.
Or they might pay once in, like,
maybe three, five, six months.
Which has capacity to pay,
or willingness to pay altogether,
might be, I believe,
100 million or 80 million-ish.
-That's a lot.
-That's still a lot. Uh...
-Great number.
-[Sean] Maybe...
the average pay month...
average paying a month,
might be much lesser than global average,
but, at least, they are willing
to pay for gaming. I mean, that's...
The way I look at this space
is for content.
Hmm, content, yeah.
Netflix, maybe six, seven million people
-are willing to pay the $10.
-Hmm.
It peaks at JioCinema-Hotstar combination.
Maybe 50 million people are willing to pay
$10 a year for crazy amount of content.
So if that is 50 million,
but 100 million are willing to play--
to pay to play, is a lot.
And you're talking more
in-app purchases, right?
-In-app purchases, yes.
-Not pay-to-play.
Hmm. Yeah.
I mean, there is no very, like,
good statistics from one source.
It's more of guesstimation,
but that's my guesstimation.
And real-money gaming--
Do you agree with that number?
Yeah, I think so.
I think the important point
to also understand
is there's a perception
that games in India
are being played by kids or youngsters.
But I think that's not true at all, now,
and especially after COVID, right?
It's cutting across demographics,
-ages, genders...
-I read a stat
that youngsters are spending
12 hours a day--
12 hours a week on gaming.
But I'm guessing adults
can't be spending that much.
[Nitish] No, they are.
And different use cases
for different people.
You know, my own grandmom just touched 90
and she plays games on her phone.
And she likes to play word games
for a variety of entertainment, right?
When we were going IPO,
one of the things on my mind
was responsible gaming.
We have a game called
World Cricket Championship,
which is a popular cricket game.
Don't virtue signal because
you're a listed company
and talk about responsible gaming.
You wish your clients were playing
24 hours a day.
-[Nitish] No, no, but still...
-[laughs]
I still had to look at it.
You're selling a game
at the end of the day.
No, no, but still.
Another stat I wanted to ask is,
I read that, in the gaming split,
while we were establishing market size...
First thing, uh, Sean said, 100 million.
Let's go with that number.
I am assuming, off the balance, 450,
a lot of it is real-money gaming.
No, because 100 million--
He said potential payers.
-There are a lot of casual gamers, right?
-Who are not paying.
Yeah, a lot of people, and all--
Again, as I said,
across demographics,
playing for time pass,
playing to kill time.
Like word games, cooking games.
-[Nitish] Yeah, exactly.
-Sports games.
[Nitish] And they don't pay,
so they're happy to see some ads
and continue playing.
And how big is Dream11?
What is their number of users count?
I think it's over 200 million.
Yeah, that's kind of starting
to add up, right?
200 from there, 100 from here.
The balance, 115, casual.
And people say that the split
is 60 men, 40 women.
Is that right?
I'll talk about my industry.
In finance, the split is more like 83 men
and 17 women participants.
Is it really 60-40?
I think it's 75-25-ish,
is from what I read latest.
So maybe, mid-core-ish games,
which is more like, um...
which needs more time spent
and more focused.
That would be 75 male and 25 female.
I think, casual games, it can become,
like, more balanced, yeah.
Do you guys have an opinion
on real-money gaming?
I'm sure you heard
about the taxation in India.
I'll go through each one of you,
because it's such a big monster
in the room
that we have to talk about it, right?
Like, while I say this,
Harsh is a really good friend of mine,
the Dream11 guy.
I think he's Nitish's friend as well.
But how do you think it affects Dream11
and all of his competitors, this tax?
Do you think it's fair
that they did what they did?
Let's start with, uh, Animesh.
I don't think it's fair.
I think it was too harsh, but then...
It was too harsh to Harsh.
-Too harsh to Harsh.
-Yeah.
But I felt that it was more harsh
on the profitability
from my layman understanding.
Because I saw that Dream11
did put out a coupon code in a way.
You know, it did not affect
the end user at the end.
So I think smart plays
always come into play, and...
But, yeah, I guess it did take a hit.
I had good friends in MPL and WinZO
who are really affected.
I met the WinZO cofounders
a couple of times,
and they've been our very good clients,
so has been MPL.
People were really hit hard,
so I actually pity the industry,
Because that was like a one-night thing.
It just suddenly changed
everything for them.
So, all right.
But, yeah, I think the government
has a big team working for them,
so they always take the best decision.
I'm all for free-market capitalism.
I feel like
if somebody is willing to engage
with a certain platform, consciously,
somebody able, willing, adult,
spending his own money...
I feel like
regulations skew industries in manners
which is not always conducive
to innovation and evolution
of whatever industry.
I feel like there should be
less control and not more.
Nitish, this is a more
nuanced question for you,
because I know Nazara
doesn't really do RMG,
but you have a tiny component
which is, like, 1% or 2%.
2%, yeah.
Yeah. What do you think?
Look, I think over the last few years,
it's clearly been demonstrated
that the consumer demand is there.
Consumer interest
in participating and playing
real-money games
is definitely very high in India.
It's not new, right?
People participating in betting in cricket
has forever been there,
whether-- It's not even allowed.
It's banned, but it's...
Would you argue that it formalised
what was otherwise a black market,
where we, as Indians, were not
benefiting from the tax revenue?
Yeah, absolutely.
What do you think about it personally?
If I were to ask you about...
fantasy... fantasy cricket, rummy, poker,
a whole bunch of games like that,
which game requires
the most skill to least skill,
in that order?
I think, uh...
So it's not necessarily the game,
but how it is played
and who is playing it,
whether it is for skill or not, right?
But my overall thesis here
is that there is consumer demand.
People are going to play. When you ban--
You've seen in many states,
for example, in India,
where games have been banned.
The online real-money games
-have been banned.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
The business has usually
gone underground...
-to more irresponsible players...
-[Nikhil] Right.
-...which completely exposes the users.
So I think the right balance
with the right...
amount of regulation and framework...
for companies to responsibly do it,
as well as the government
to get its fair share of tax,
is probably a healthier place to be,
versus a completely unregulated market,
which is going underground
and getting, you know, screwed up.
Now, in terms of what is the tax,
what is the fair amount of tax,
I think there is no perfect answer,
obviously...
Currently, what was the number? 30%?
-No, no, so...
-[Nikhil] 28.
...it's 28%.
Now, the latest tax on the GST
is 28% on deposits,
which was earlier 20--
I mean, gaming companies
were paying 18% on their rake, right?
Now, the spectrum can be very large.
It could be 18% on rake.
It could be all the way 28% on entry fee.
Is the tax now on rake or the money?
[Nitish] It's on the money you deposit.
So if you put in ₹100
in your online wallet--
Do you think that is the part
people are contesting?
That it should be on the rake
and not the money put in?
Yeah, I mean, the industry is, of course.
I mean, they would want
the least amount of tax, right?
So that is the main contention.
It is okay to charge the revenue
of the company, but...
Like, in e-commerce terms, not the GMV.
Yeah.
So that's where it is right now.
I think, over the next few months,
hopefully, there will be more clarity
on how this pans out.
I want each of you guys
to come up with one thing.
What is it that will be relevant
five years from now?
Wager a guess.
You wanna go first?
I think that person needs to realise
that attention span has already declined.
It's gonna decline further.
So whatever they are making,
it needs to move
at a very fast speed for the user.
So, you both are in contradiction there,
because Joseph thinks
casual and super casual,
which might require
lesser attention span, is declining.
Well, hyper-casual is declining.
I would say casual
is not necessarily declining,
but hyper-casual,
in terms of these very casual games
with a bunch of ads, for reasons--
In my mind,
I think Snake is hyper-casual, right?
[laughs] Think Snake,
but they load a bunch of ads
-on top of it.
-Right.
[Joseph] Yeah, so that stuff
is starting to go away.
So what do you mean by, uh, your time...
focused on the game going down?
How much time?
I think it's not about the time,
it's about the next event
that's gonna happen
when I'm playing the game.
So I think if I--
For example, if I'm meeting an NPC,
a non-playing character,
in the game,
and it progresses my storyline.
Earlier, when I've played games
like Batman, et cetera,
we used to have long chats, long dialogues
that they would use to tell,
the story used to be really beautiful.
I don't think people are gonna be ready
for that in the next five years.
The first event, the next event needs--
The rate at which events happen
in the game, or events occur in the game,
needs to be faster.
Because I think swipe-up generation
is gonna take up the world,
and it's just gonna be
swipe, swipe, swipe.
So we need to have events
that happen faster.
Attention span-- Games that
are fast-paced, very fast-paced.
I think that's the reason
maybe battle royale or FPS games
would live longer,
because it always involves action.
Like, you know,
even if you're standing at a position,
you're still doing something
which will help the next event occur.
But when you're playing story mode games
or normal casual games,
you cannot just be moving slowly
and wait for something to happen.
Give me an example of the kind of game
which will work in five years
and one which won't.
I think there's a game called Among Us,
it should still work in five years.
And that works in five years, because?
Something is happening?
Because something is happening
really fast.
I believe that we cannot have
those slow story mode games
that we used to play.
Same thing we established why
watching movies and sport
is not working anymore.
Because you're not interacting
with the interface in a manner.
You're watching,
and it takes a long period of time.
Also, I think it could be
a major reason why
TikTok and reels and shorts
are doing really well.
I mean, like, last night,
I was actually scrolling
your podcast shorts,
and it really took me into a loop
of two and a half hours
where I just got related content,
I got so intrigued.
Then I was looking at your guest speaking
at some other places.
Then I dived down
to Ritesh's other interviews.
So, it's just a loop.
And I just saw the clock,
it's 03:00 a.m., and I was like,
"Good two and a half hours,"
but that is what it is about.
But I won't watch two and a half hours
of a movie
of a content of a related topic.
And one example of a game
which won't work in five years?
[Animesh] Uh...
A very beautiful game that I used to play.
I'm not able to recollect its name.
But something like, I would say
a Batman: Arkham Knight wouldn't work.
It's one fantastic game.
I think it's slow-paced, because,
you know, you have those dialogues
coming in.
Territory-based.
Yeah, you have to go
from one place to another.
The movements are difficult.
I think even if you talk about the way
the movements happen in-game,
people would want
more simplified versions of it.
Like, you know, just give us two buttons,
two joysticks, allow us to move.
Like, even me, I've evolved...
Like, I'm playing less games nowadays
because I have other work to do.
But when, now, I want to play new games,
I tend to play simpler games
which do not have too many abilities,
too many buttons that I need to use.
So, maybe, I think
there could be a transition.
I believe that there are
a lot of people like me
who are transitioning
into such type of games.
These are a few things
that might change five years later.
And, Nitish,
one insight five years from now?
That people should bear in mind
looking to build a career here?
I think gaming is on the cusp
of many new technologies,
and, therefore, the experience
of gaming itself is changing.
We already spoke a lot about AI,
so I won't repeat that.
But also, for example,
I'm personally of the opinion that
virtual reality will become
far more tangible
in the years to come, right?
And I've been playing with
the Apple Vision Pro and the Quest Pro.
And I think, now the experience
we've been looking at for a decade--
the company, we've been
looking at VR for a decade--
it was never there.
I think the experience has got there,
and I think once it transcends
a little bit more,
maybe two, three years down.
Now, you have three big players,
Sony, Meta, and now Apple in their fray.
I think you will go from potentially
playing a game to being in the game,
which can be transformative.
I know that a lot of people
are still very pessimistic
because I think they're burnt
for very long on VR and stuff like that.
But, at least, I believe
that's the future of gaming.
How does somebody
build the proficiency required
to cater to games on VR and AR?
I mean, it's the same tools
that you're using largely.
Is it, like, a completely different thing?
Building a game for VR?
You can use some of the same engines.
[Nitish] Yeah, the engines are similar.
[Nikhil] Sean?
Hmm.
I mean, Nitish mentioned about AR.
Uh, I mean, VR.
So I would, uh...
I feel that AR might be closer than VR.
I mean, I also bought,
like, a different version of Meta Quest,
which I used maybe for two, three hours,
maybe one week or two weeks,
[chuckles] and then I... I gave up.
[Nikhil] Why?
Because, uh, like...
it doesn't feel very comfortable
to play long hours.
And that uncomfortableness doesn't,
sort of, allow me to reengage.
But I think, AR, for example,
like Pokémon GO,
which blends the reality--
I mean, the physical space
with your smartphone,
actually gives a lot
of different experiences,
which traditional games didn't offer.
I think that can be actually invented
in a lot of different ways
if you...
If, as a game designer or game producer,
if you can, you know,
really become innovative and experimental.
So that is my, sort of... yeah.
What is the role of Discord and Twitch
in the gaming world?
I'll go?
Yeah, so, Discord was more
of the chat room that used to exist
when games did not have VoIP.
Like, you know,
you could not talk within the game.
There used to be TeamSpeak,
a software called TeamSpeak,
then Discord took over.
However, Discord also brought with itself
the community-building angle
in the form of a server.
It's called a Discord server.
So what you could do is,
you could get your friends
or people only whom you want to join
inside a particular server
and do a closed chat
and a closed call outside the game.
So I think Discord really changed
everything for gaming in a lot of ways.
But now, Discord has gone
into a lot of things,
like, it's relevant
to a lot of industries,
relevant to a lot of industries
that are non-gaming that are into...
It's a big space for Web3 also.
I think a lot of Web3 games
are being discussed
and the communities
are being formed within Discord.
It's great for art as well.
Like, I have joined some servers
which used to have artists in it
who used to help me out.
So it's a good community-building--
It's a social media platform, I would say.
Is it a good way--
Somebody said
Discord is democratising game marketing.
I don't think Discord has too much
of a role to play in that,
but I would let them take this question.
Like, if a game is really good,
people will chat with each other
in the gaming community,
in Discord, discover it,
so traditional marketing for games
might be getting disrupted.
I mean, I would actually think
that it's more, rather than Discord,
it's more Twitch and YouTube
that are allowing influencers
to become the new marketing
for games, right?
And so, today, you know,
you mentioned Among Us,
but like, some of those games
were going nowhere for, like...
I think Among Us had, like,
nothing for, like, three or four years,
and then some influencers picked it up
and talked about it and then it blew up.
So, I would agree where Discord
is more of like the community tool,
the ways that you can have
a one-on-one conversation
with your player,
with your players and your audience,
to get that direct feedback.
So I view it more as a feedback
and community-building mechanism.
-And we think in similar ways on that.
-Right.
But I think in terms of marketing,
that would be more Twitch and YouTube.
And certainly, that has been a big shift,
is that influencers now
are really driving many installs
and driving a lot of the word of mouth
and awareness for games today.
If I had a game,
I did all that we discussed.
-I did Nvidia's free course...
-Yeah.
I did the University of Michigan
free course.
I learned whatever Roblox is.
And then I built...
not a hyper-casual, but a casual game,
which is mobile first,
'cause most people in India
are playing on mobile.
You said 97%.
Do I then integrate
influencers, Discord, and Twitch
to sell the game and get the word out?
Is there a particular way to do that?
How does a game garner virality?
See, that's a very
typical way of doing it.
Like, we're launching a product
in the market
and you have influencers talking about it.
The other way of how me as a gamer
would want things to happen
is involve those influencers
or those key stakeholders or those gamers
that you actually want to target.
Obviously, it cannot be the entire cohort,
but at your alpha or pre-beta stage
-or even before alpha.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
So this is one thing that Indus did,
the SuperGaming that I'm talking about.
Indus invited us a year and a half back
to, you know, just show us the game.
Just take casual feedback
of how it's doing.
"What do you think about it?"
I think those are some key things
that are very important,
and it really helped
strike a chord between...
So, it was me and MortaL who went there.
That, you know, if they invited us
at such a stage to take feedback,
that means it's a, sort of,
a moral responsibility towards us
that when this game comes out,
we'll talk about it.
And we actually went ahead
and talked about it.
Even today, we talk about it.
That's the reason I'm talking about it,
because I felt really connected to it.
So I believe that, generally,
the development story also helps.
That was the case with how Riot does it.
You know,
they will call the game Project X,
then they'll talk about it for two years,
then they will release teasers,
then there will be leaks
that will come out,
and then they will release a game
with alpha, beta, pre-beta,
and an official launch.
So I think a good way
to go about it is talk about it.
Start very early.
If your product is ready
and then you want to launch it,
it's always very expensive.
I mean, like, you know,
the marketing starts way early.
So this is external marketing.
You can also build virality
into your game.
So, one is, if you can play the game
with your friends, right?
For example, in India, Ludo blew up,
because when I was playing Ludo,
I wanted to play it with my friends
and I would automatically,
through the game,
easily be able to invite my friends
or family to play with me, right?
Many games incorporate stuff like,
you can unlock special features
if you refer this game to five friends.
There are a lot of hacks
that you can build into your game
also to drive organic virality
from within your game.
If I know nothing about the gaming world,
and I wanna go talk to people
who are in the gaming world,
where is the easiest place
to connect with them?
I'm starting from scratch.
In India, probably IGDC,
the game conference.
[Sean] The developer conference.
When does it happen? Who organises it?
-November...
-[Sean] Uh, Hyderabad.
-Hyderabad.
-[Nikhil] Hmm?
-Who puts it on?
-Sorry?
Who organises it?
-Um...
-It's a volunteer organisation.
There is a committee or council members
who have been in the industry
for a long time.
I think the Indian typical mind
would work differently.
Like, if I want to know about something,
I would search
who the most famous person is
and try to figure out
where that person is doing a dialogue
and then reach that.
I think majority of the Indians
would first come to a gamer
who is streaming on YouTube or Twitch,
go to his chat, speak, and then start.
IGDC, believe me, no 19-year-old boy,
who knows nothing about gaming,
would ever enter IGDC.
But maybe a good idea for him, too?
Yeah, if on the other side,
it's a great idea.
Obviously, IGDC, I think,
is the biggest gaming event,
gaming industry event that happens.
What are some other topics
that you guys think are relevant
that I might not know about?
Uh, why...
For me, it's very relevant.
I actually want Sean and Joseph
to answer about it.
Why is that only BGMI and Free Fire
were able to do so big?
COD:M failed,
a lot of other games came to India,
tried for two, three months and failed.
And why is it only BGMI and Free Fire
on mobile games?
The reason why I'm asking is
because I don't have an answer for this.
Except for the fact
that I praise you guys a lot,
that the publisher took keen interest
in the country.
You guys did set up the esports ecosystem
and everything else.
This is one thing everyone
would want to know.
I think Joseph might be the best person
to answer this question
from the developer's perspective.
I'm not... myself, I'm not a developer,
but let me just start as an appetiser.
-He will serve the main dish.
-[laughter]
So, from my point of view,
this size of a success,
and I believe the battle royale game
has opened up India gaming industry
into the different direction,
compared to, you know,
what has existed before,
had existed before that.
It actually happens not very often,
and it doesn't really happen
with a lot of intention.
It happens in a very, maybe, luckily,
or, you know, very coincidentally.
I think it could happen because of...
definitely, like,
4G penetration was there,
and then there was no other genre of game
which has that sort of reach
before battle royale.
And also, battle royale game
is not on just mobile
and console and PC,
it has opened up shooter games
into different, sort of--
I mean, expanded the appeal.
So that actually coincides
in that time period.
And also, after two years, COVID happened,
which also amplified that, uh,
that sort of trend.
So I wanted to emphasise
in a slightly different manner for this
because I feel that if India wants
to become a powerhouse in gaming,
especially game development perspective,
I think young people in India
should try many games
and try to make their own games.
I haven't seen many game developers
who become very successful
in the first title.
I think even a 19-year-old boy on Roblox,
he might have made
five, ten different games,
and then maybe
it's 11th game or 15th game.
So I think you should not
try to become perfect to start something.
You should try something original
on your own,
even if you feel you're not ready.
So I have a question for you.
You launched BGMI in India, you did RTV,
you have done Bullet Echo two days ago.
The spends that you are doing
towards popularising the game
or making the esports
for that particular title popular,
will it be even, like...
What percentage would you allot to RTV
or Bullet Echo compared to BGMI?
-Explain RTV, Bullet Echo.
-Road to Valor.
-It's a game that Krafton launched.
-[Sean] It's a strategy...
[Animesh] Yeah,
and it took off really well,
and even I was playing it,
and then, interest fell off.
Because, like, interest fell off for me
and a lot of other creators
because we saw that the esports ecosystem
is not building as great
as you guys are doing for BGMI.
Because this is like the gamer
within me asking you that,
how do you guys go about it?
And then why someone should build
every other game
if a company as big as Krafton
is not, you know,
trying to build every game
with equal interest?
That's a very good and tricky
question to answer,
but I will be just bold enough
to answer, give some answers.
So, I feel that, um...
Uh, I think you can try
to make a certain game
to be esports-compatible
when you first design the game,
but when you launch the game,
either it's a soft launch
or a commercial launch,
you find a lot of gaps between
what you actually felt it would work
and actually didn't work.
I think, in case of Road to Valor,
I think we felt that feeling.
You design certain things, like,
one-versus-one would be fun,
and fun to play and fun to watch.
It was fun to play in a way,
but not so fun to watch, to be honest.
So we added, recently,
like, two-versus-two.
We changed the UI for people
to naturally come into
two-versus-two more.
Like, dynamic and social experience.
But maybe, timing-wise,
it's a little late, uh, maybe.
That's a very interesting insight.
So games today to work
have to be fun to play,
but also fun to watch?
-[Sean] Yeah.
-That's where my business is built.
Anything else
that you guys think is relevant?
-Nitish?
-[Nitish] Yeah.
I just want to add a couple of points
which I think are very important
for our young Indian developers.
One is that they need to iterate
and ship fast, okay?
Because if you start a game
as a young developer with a plan
that I'll ship it in 18 months
and 24 months,
they run out of money,
it doesn't happen, right?
And they lose confidence.
So, I think, initially at least,
they need to take on games and projects
which are shippable fast,
and then they can get their MVP out,
or the minimum viable product out,
and then look at the data and iterate it.
And if the data is a disaster,
then maybe give it one or two shots
and move on to the next project.
I see a lot of developers
get stuck in this loop, otherwise,
if they're not shipping out.
And that's a big failure for many of them.
So, I just wanna highlight that.
I think the second thing is,
it's very important
that they focus on the right metrics.
I often say it's important for them
to focus on the real metrics
versus the vanity metrics early on.
And just to give an example
of what I mean,
usually, when a developer comes to me
and says,
"I have 50,000 downloads of my game",
to me, immediately,
that's largely a vanity metric, right?
I don't react much to that
because I'm being honest.
The downloads may mean nothing.
But if the developer comes and tells me,
"My D1 retention is 40%,
my D7 retention is 20%."
-D7 being?
-[Nitish] Day seven.
-[Joseph] Day seven.
-The retention of the user.
Suddenly,
my eyes will start lighting up, right?
I'll be telling my BD team,
"Okay, meet this developer."
Do you have a mechanism where
young people can come pitch you games?
Yeah, absolutely.
So we launched something
called Nazara Publishing now,
which is actually meant
to help developers,
because we really believe
that Make In India
is a big opportunity
for Indian developers.
For India and for the world, right?
So we, of course,
have to have that, and we do have that.
So how does someone
pitch Nazara Publishing?
They come to publishing.nazara.com
-and fill in an application form.
-Nice.
Do you guys have that, too?
At Krafton and Lila?
-[Sean] Yeah, we do.
-[Joseph] We don't.
I mean, they are more like a pure core.
We're focused on building
one or two games.
We can't make anything else.
What is the biggest hurdle you're facing
in building the game
that you are right now?
Talent.
-Yeah?
-Yeah.
[Nikhil] Because you're in India?
-[Joseph] Yes.
-Or talent at a cost?
I touched upon this before, right?
Because there are so many people
who leave India,
and it's hard to, you know,
it's hard to argue for someone
who wants to live in another country,
who wants to make dramatically more money.
Why would you wanna stay in India?
But if the games are going
to compete in the same market,
one could argue that you could
pay them the same amount of money.
Once we're profitable, sure.
And I think that in some industries,
like, to some degree,
that's starting to happen.
So, we've seen a pretty fast acceleration
in the compensation of engineers
over the past four or five years,
as the world became more remote.
Certainly after COVID,
I think engineers got paid
dramatically more, right?
So, we're starting to see
some of that impact as well.
But one thing I would want
young people to think about,
really try to start with,
"What do you want from your life?"
I think that's a question
that not enough young people
have asked themselves.
And I think that some people
have bought into, like,
these notions of, you know,
the popularised notions of quiet quitting,
side hustle, things like that.
And I just think that if more people
really thought critically about
what they're really searching for
in their life,
that they'd be able
to make better decisions
about the path that they would choose.
And there's an exercise, actually,
I believe it was Clayton Christensen
who wrote about an exercise
that he recommended for people,
which is to think about your life
when you're on your deathbed,
and thinking back,
and what would make you proud?
How would you measure the value
of your life looking back?
I think not enough young people do that.
And I think that that's something
that, as an older guy
who didn't think about that
for way too much of my life, I wish I had.
I want to highlight or pick
five most relevant skill sets
required to build a career in gaming.
Each one of you can tell me one.
What do we start with?
You mentioned art earlier.
-[Joseph] Yeah.
-[Nikhil] So...
-Oh, you mean the disciplines?
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
So, there's probably
four main disciplines.
There's art, engineering,
or development, um,
third is product management or production,
-and fourth is design.
-[Sean] Game design.
Design, yeah.
And fifth is, if I can go with the fifth,
is, I think, which is very important,
is also your data analytics.
-[Sean] Data analytics.
-[Joseph] Yeah.
-Being able to understand data...
-Yeah.
...and react to data is very important.
Okay, so, what does somebody need
to build a career in art
in the gaming world?
[Sean] Hmm.
I mean, get the necessary skills.
Also, there's a big difference
between 2D and 3D art.
[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
There's a difference between doing, like,
concept art versus, like, production art.
There's a lot of nuance there within art.
So give me--
Okay, let's say there's 3D art,
-there's 2D art.
-[Joseph] Yeah.
And then, within that, there's also, like,
are you focused on characters
or are you focused on environment?
[Nikhil] Okay.
[Joseph] Um...
And how does somebody learn
how to make 2D art, 3D art,
character, or environment...
Usually, there's schools for that.
For example?
I don't know the name
of the schools in India.
In India, it could be something like
Arena Animation or something.
And how much does somebody
working in the art side of gaming
make as a starting pay?
-Not much. [laughs]
-[Sean] Art is lower side.
-[Joseph] It's the lowest.
-Yeah?
But depends who the consumer is.
But lower side is how much? In India?
I would say the very lowest I've seen
is, like, five lakhs or less.
-[Nikhil] Per year?
-[Sean] Entry-level.
[Joseph] Entry-level.
We're talking entry-level.
[Nikhil] Five lakhs a year.
And you also mentioned,
Joseph and Nitish actually,
that AI might make
this entire section redundant very fast.
It might be, yeah.
At least a lower or middle-level,
up to middle-level.
Maybe very senior,
or maybe someone at the, like...
who can make some direction.
Maybe they...
But then they can be replaced
by some game designer or choreographer.
Yeah, I mean, I don't know if you guys
have checked out suno.ai,
but, like, if you haven't,
you absolutely should.
You just give it, like, some descriptions,
it'll automatically create music.
And you can see where that is today.
In two to three years, I...
We could be living in a world
where most of the music we hear
is AI-generated
rather than generated by human beings.
Similarly for art,
we're kind of getting to a place
where you can, kind of, describe things
and then many variations
just kind of pop up.
-Um...
-[Nikhil] So, you wouldn't recommend--
If you had a 14-year-old child,
you wouldn't say...
If I'm thinking macro,
I would be like, "Ugh, art?"
-[Nikhil] No.
-I'd probably--
Unless you really had
a very specific skill.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
-Because I think, ultimately,
masters at their craft
are masters at their craft.
But otherwise, I would probably avoid it.
So you're swimming
against the tide in art.
Yes. And maybe
in engineering, too, because...
What does the engineering
breakdown look like?
So, for...
Well, I would say there isn't...
there's more of a linear path
in engineering, I would say.
Except for-- You're generally thinking
in terms of front-end versus back-end.
And in the front-end,
you're generally going to be working
with one of the two primary game engines,
Unity or Unreal.
And so, you would learn either C# or C++
depending on which engine you use.
And then for back-end...
So the front-end means, like,
the thing you actually play, right?
The combat, the characters
that move around, all the functionality.
Like the UI, in a way.
All that stuff. That's included there.
And then the back-end is like
when you're saving your stats
to the back-end server, the netcode,
so that you can play
against other players.
All the stuff you kind of don't see,
but makes the game operate
in the back-end.
So, then, generally speaking,
you have engineers oriented around
one of those two,
either front-end or back-end.
But you also have some full-stack guys.
So you would go C#,
learn how to use Unity, Unreal,
and become really proficient in that.
Yeah, I would probably recommend
for India, for right now, Unity, C#.
But later, I would recommend C++, Unreal.
Unreal is trying to take over.
But you know, in the long term,
if current trends continue,
Unreal is likely the engine of choice
-in the not-too-distant future.
-Nice.
And how much would somebody
in engineering make on average,
-front and back-end?
-It depends.
-That depends on the school.
-[chuckles]
Right? So, like,
if you go to IIT and you come out,
you can make, you know, 40-50 lakhs.
-I mean, it's, uh...
-With no experience?
With no experience. It's possible, yeah.
Assuming that you will catch up very fast.
Yeah.
And also assuming
that you will actually get hired.
But he's saying they're lacking talent.
They're looking for people.
Actually, you know,
I see a lot of job openings on LinkedIn
from the popular developers or publishers.
I don't see any opening
for a newbie into the industry.
-[Nikhil] Really?
-Yes.
I might be wrong here,
but from the openings
that I've tried to go by,
I don't think big studios
are hiring people who are freshers.
The small guys. What we still do,
we still hire freshers.
[Sean] We also...
We try to hire, like, experienced guys,
but, then, it didn't work out very well.
And then, there is some gap.
Like, we expect this level of experience,
but they don't...
So we actually changed the direction.
On the engineering side though,
there's a big gap, right?
We generally don't like to hire from IIT
just because there's such a huge premium
for those guys.
But, yeah, it can come down quite a bit.
Is there a way somebody
who does engineering,
learns Unity, Unreal, C#, C++,
can get experience
without having a full-time job?
-Yeah.
-[Nikhil] Internship opportunities?
They build their own projects,
publish them,
submit them to GitHub.
So, yeah, there's a lot of ways
where you can distinguish yourself
as a good engineer if you wanted to.
But, also,
I think the thing that's missing
from most of the people
that I've interviewed in India
for game development,
unlike other places,
is just hardcore, like,
math and logic skills.
That's something
that is critical as an engineer,
but seems to be lacking quite a lot.
Okay, even from the IIT crowd?
No, the IIT guys are fine.
[laughter]
Do you hire from the same place?
Yeah, but, you know,
we have a very distributed way of working.
So, we have different studios that we own,
and each have their own different policies
of how they are recruiting.
-Right.
-It's not very centralised.
[Nikhil] Right, right. Okay.
Production? Product management?
Yeah, so product management is,
I would say,
a pretty difficult skill
to, kind of, learn on your own.
It does-- In my opinion,
it requires, like, hands-on practice.
Um, but there are a number
of online resources.
We provide some resources as well
that teach about product management.
So, I can share
some of those links, but I--
Would it typically be an engineering guy
upgrading or getting promoted
to be a product manager?
Not necessarily. Not usually.
But I will say that
in our product team at Lila,
two of our product managers,
we hired from engineering.
And similar to Sean's case...
what I have realised is that,
in our case, too,
we prefer to hire people who are new
but hungry and wanting to learn
versus people who have worked
at an existing game company in India
for four to five years because...
I kind of touched upon this before.
Live services and live operating a game,
that set of skills is very different.
It's a difference between
0-to-1 versus 1-to-N.
What is the skill?
The skill in terms of, like,
new game development
is so different from live operations
where everything's kind of figured out.
It's like...
I'm just following
the normal playbook, right?
I think...
In new game development,
you have to be kind of brutal,
very effective.
The communication style...
There's a whole difference
in culture and mentality
for new game development
versus live operations.
Does it also equate to the nuance
of scale, building for scale?
Is that the product manager's role?
Well, I think it's building for
product-market fit
relative to 1-to-N,
where you are building for larger scale.
And I'm assuming these guys
get paid the most, right?
I would say engineers
right now get paid the most.
-More than product managers.
-[Joseph] Yes.
-So this would be--
-[Joseph] The second most.
Thirty lakhs, 20 lakhs.
Uh, starting off, it's less.
I think starting off, product managers...
I mean, again, it depends on the school,
but I mean, you know,
I think starting product managers
would make ten lakhs or less.
I don't know.
You guys know the numbers
better than I do.
I agree. Like product manager
in the junior level,
they don't make too much difference.
So, their entry salary would be lower...
-[Joseph] Lower, yeah.
-Slightly higher than artists.
But I think if they go to the producer,
like we are the main producer level,
then their salary
can be as equal as engineers.
-On the higher end.
-[Sean] On the higher end.
And the design?
Design, so--
I would have assumed
art and design are very similar, no?
It's not like art design.
-It's more like game... the core gameplay.
-[Joseph] Game design.
Now, I would say that design
is the weakest area in India.
Yeah.
So finding a good designer...
I don't even know
where you go to learn that.
Why is that?
[Joseph] Um...
-[Nitish speaking indistinctly]
-I don't know.
Yeah. No, no.
It's because traditionally in India,
animation art has always been
an industry, right?
Even job work for just animation,
forget gaming.
Similarly, coding across industries
has always been there.
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
-But design specifically for a game,
which requires, "How do you
make a game that is engaging?" Right?
How do you get the user
in that flow state?
I think that thinking, it comes naturally
when you are really exposed to it
over a very long period of time.
So if I am a designer, a game designer,
I will pick when to shoot,
when the real characters come in,
when the static characters go out,
stuff like that?
-[Nitish] Somewhat, all of that.
-[Animesh] That's the gameplay structure.
It's not "design"
as much as figuring the flow?
It's complex.
Yeah. It's complicated
'cause there's actually, like...
I would probably characterise
game design in two parts.
One is gameplay, right? Which is like...
For any kind of...
The way you typically think
about a game, you know,
for Snake, what do you do?
What are the actions?
What are the, kind of,
specific things happening?
And then the second part of design
is systems design.
You mentioned meta, right?
And so the meta or systems part
is like the progression-compulsion part,
where you might have a crafting system,
you might be building a house.
It's not the main gameplay.
You might play the game, earn some stuff,
and then go craft something
somewhere else, right?
But these two are generally separate.
And generally, like,
someone great at gameplay design,
in terms of the combat, feel of the guns,
things like that,
is often different from the person
who is designing the systems.
-And--
-I would say the game design
requires the most creativity
among all other disciplines.
And then it can be generally taught
through some kind of apprenticeship,
but it also requires kind of natural-born
or educated creativity.
So which... If you don't have that
culture of bringing up those talents,
then it might not come out easily so...
I actually think
Indians could be great at design.
They just need
the proper educational research.
Yeah, yeah, bridging that sort of...
the creativity in their culture
and in their brain
and transforming it into
the more professional or practical level.
That actually is difficult to happen.
And where can an Indian learn that?
A 20-year-old.
They can start by designing for Roblox,
for example, on the UGC platforms.
But I guess
one of the drawbacks for India is,
because, like most of the people
I know building for Roblox,
they don't do it on their phone,
they do it on a PC.
And because there aren't
a lot of homes with PCs,
that may be one of the things
holding India back.
-Um...
-Why don't they do it on their phone?
It's just too difficult, right?
And then if you're coding, like in Luau...
I mean, you don't wanna be doing that
on your phone.
But that's different in the West?
People are...
Almost every home has PC in their house,
as well as, you know,
tablets and other things, so...
But, I mean... Similar for China.
There aren't a...
I mean, there are some places that have...
Uh, I think there's...
PC penetration
is probably higher in China,
but still not as abundant
as, like, US and other places.
How much does a game designer make?
-Like an artist?
-[Nikhil laughs]
[Sean] It varies a lot.
Yeah, it varies a lot, but pretty low.
Maybe around what an artist makes.
Slightly higher, but not much.
Like as much as the art guy?
Maybe a little bit more.
A little bit. Tiny bit.
Eight.
-[Sean] Seven, eight.
-Sort of four...
-Entry.
-[Joseph] Yeah. For entry?
Less than eight. Yeah.
But that's surprising 'cause this seems
like the most critical part of the--
But that's because they don't have...
Like, if you were
a really good game designer,
then sure, you could make a lot more.
Yeah, and I have seen,
like, creative director...
a creative director who actually set
the direction of the core gameplay
and even certain part
of the out-game elements.
They are maybe as equal
as cofounder or founder
in terms of stock options or, you know,
incentives they get
from the success of the game.
I mean, gaming is a creative field.
So, yeah, there's certainly potential
for high payouts.
Data analytics?
What does he do?
It's all about looking
at the underlying data
that is being generated by a game.
For example, what are the data points?
Retention is one of the biggest ones.
For example, if 100 people
played your game on the first day
when they downloaded the game,
how many came back the next day?
Now, once you know
that 40 came back the next day,
which is a good retention generally,
you lost 60.
Then you need to get into your game data
and see what are the drop-off points.
Where am I losing these users
or these players, right?
Are they launching the game
and dropping off
from the main menu of the game
without playing anything?
Are they going into a certain level?
Are they getting stuck there
and then dropping off?
So, there's a lot of in-depth data
that you need to get into
-to understand how you can improve...
-[Nikhil] Mm-hmm.
...the engagement of your game, right?
So, I think no game can--
Unless it's just a hit by itself--
And how does somebody learn that,
inculcate that skill?
I think it's, uh...
[Nikhil] Is it college? Is it...
[Nitish] No, of course, it's...
You need to have
a very strong grip on numbers.
How do you get that?
-I'm assuming...
-[Animesh] Arts, maths?
-...you're strong in maths, et cetera.
-[overlapping conversations]
-Khan Academy?
-[Joseph and Nikhil laugh]
There's also aptitude to data
and numbers, right?
-Khan Academy teaches maths?
-Yeah, it's good.
It's aptitude to basic aptitude
and interest in data and numbers.
Where do you hire your data analytics guy?
I think we've hired them...
at least for us,
many of them are from some
of these good business schools.
-Business schools?
-[Nitish] Yeah.
And how much do you pay
these people typically?
We just have our product managers do it,
so we don't have a dedicated data analyst.
Yeah, I mean, we...
At least at a corporate team
where we have a few people
looking at data of a lot of our studios...
maybe 20, 30 lakhs a year.
It's a lot.
That's entry-level?
No, I mean,
we don't have entry-level at corporate.
We have, like, six people looking at data.
But I think if I were to bring it down
to entry-level,
I would assume
it would be around ten, right?
Yeah, yeah.
Now, I think the interesting question
is to Animesh.
What skill sets?
I think I'll just give a few advices
on how to be a gamer
because there's no rule of thumb
-on how you can be a gamer?
-Yeah.
First I would say, in India...
First thing, backup.
It needs to be mentioned
that until you have reached that spot,
it's always your backup thing
you are chasing.
It's a passion project.
To become a gamer yourself is also
a passion project that you're working on.
When do you transition
from passion to full-time?
I would say your first contract
where you're getting paid
at least 35K a month.
[Nikhil] Rupees.
...rupees, is where I can say
that it's your profession from here on.
You're talking about gamer
or content creator?
[Animesh] Gamer.
Content creator, I don't believe,
should ever chase money or contracts.
Build on your own.
There is no rule of thumb.
Even I cannot give any pieces of advice
because it's so many factors.
How good the person is,
how creative they are,
how fast they go viral,
what clicks, whatnot,
but to a gamer. So it starts there.
Second is your game type, you know,
what sort of games you played.
It's not always necessary
to chase the herd,
which is, like,
going for battle royale games
or a shooting game.
Very fine example, Tirth Mehta,
who was also a part of my panel,
won an Asian Games medal
way back in 2017 for Hearthstone.
So that is another way.
So, you can always try to step out
of the normal thing
and find a different game.
Third would be knowing the...
So, if you're in India, you want to ensure
that the publisher of that game
is taking enough interest in India
to build around that game.
For example, there's a game
called Dota 2, for say.
It does not have
an active publisher interest in India.
However, it's a very, very
big game outside.
As big as...
There's an event called The International
whose price pool goes
beyond $30 million for the main event.
But if the publisher
is not interested in it,
then I would suggest,
don't opt for a game,
because then it would be
very difficult for you
to get into events or represent India
at an international stage,
because you might be clubbed
with the Oceanic region
or entire South Asia region
or the SEA region, which is difficult.
Fourth would be,
if you're going for a team game,
I would say, at first...
So, everyone asks me how to build a team.
It's a very normal question
if you're playing a team game.
I think you cannot just go out
and find other professional players
who would want to build a team with you.
You just start casually.
You get a few gamers,
get to know people online,
and it's a process. It could...
The process could be finished
in two months.
You might not find a team
in the next five years.
There is no rule of thumb again.
It's just, how social you are,
how well you are aligned,
how well you can talk to people.
It's like those elements come--
Your characteristic and your personality
comes into play
when you're finding a team.
Skill, though, comes at a later stage.
Fourth would be, uh,
once you are contracted...
That's when the real hustle starts,
if you are ever contracted.
But I believe, right now, in India,
Krafton... with this Grind
that Krafton is doing,
they have recognised 256
tier one and tier two.
Tier one means top teams of India.
There's no-- It's a very subjective thing.
Again, there is no benchmark
of what a tier-one team is.
Then there are tier-two teams
who are trying to move
into bigger events and qualify.
So, Krafton has right now identified
256 teams.
That means there are 256 good odd teams,
which means, 1,250 odd players are...
if not in a contract,
they are doing something in gaming
and they might have treated it
as a profession.
But I would say
there are another thousand.
So, the number of teams are growing.
There are so many teams
coming up in tier-two cities.
A businessman, a shop owner,
trying to build a team of his own,
maybe because his son insisted.
So, those are things happening.
So, the point is people
need to be aware about...
A gamer needs to be aware
of what's going on around him.
Don't just look at Thug or a MortaL
and try to be them directly.
It was not easy for everyone. For anyone.
And then I would say,
when you get contracted,
that's when you start doing your research.
You have to just follow the correct way
to move up the ladder.
Don't get complacent at where you are.
That's what happens.
Even in my team, you know, I've had...
I guess, in last six years,
contracted 80 players
who have moved on to now different teams.
Some have called it, hung their boots.
But I think, I always want my players
to keep moving on at a better stage.
Even if not better,
but at a parallel stage.
But I think it's...
A gamer needs to keep moving places.
Don't get stuck, especially in India.
I'd love to come hang out
with you guys once.
Yeah, you need to.
-Just for fun, right?
-[Animesh] Just for fun.
Yeah, I think we covered, like,
as much as we could.
The last bit of every episode,
what we do,
is something for the community.
In this case, gaming.
So, I ask each of you guys
if you'd like to allocate
money, time, something like that.
And then we'll put out an open poll
where we will filter and select
maybe 20 people
who show great potential in gaming,
like what you mentioned earlier,
taking them to all the gaming companies
in Bangalore, for example.
-Yeah.
-That would be great.
Internships would be great.
Grants, small amounts of money
to give them to pursue
any of these paths
at different stages would be great.
So, Nitish, you wanna start off?
You wanna, like...
allocate money or time or anything like
that to help the gaming industry?
Absolutely. I mean, as India's
only listed gaming company, it's our...
Yeah. Worth 5,000 crores.
-[laughter]
-[Animesh] 6,250.
6,250.
[Nitish] That's the least we can do.
-And we are already doing a lot of that.
-[Nikhil] Yeah.
But, yeah, very happy to allocate.
Do you wanna say an amount,
and then we'll figure out?
One crore?
To start with,
but we can double down on that.
Done. Joseph, would you?
I think I've already committed to doing
that tour of some kind, so I'll do that.
And certainly, I think not at this point
until we're profitable,
but once we're profitable,
we absolutely intend on investing
-back into the community.
-[Nikhil] But you would be okay with, say,
-the 20 that we pick...
-[Joseph] Yeah.
...allocating maybe five hours of time
just in educating them.
-Oh, of course.
-Some of them you might be able to hire.
-[Joseph] Yeah.
-Yeah?
-Yeah, done. Animesh?
I would actually love to, you know...
20 that are shortlisted,
I would love to mentor
and actually know them,
why they are getting into it?
And then, obviously, with the consultancy,
I would like to then offer them the grant.
I first need to... Like, the gamer within
would always want to ensure
that the person is in the correct...
-Like, wants to do something good.
-[Nikhil] Perfect.
[Animesh] Yeah, but I would love
to give as much time.
-But you'll give them proper time.
-As much time.
I'll go down to their city.
Like, forget...
No, we'll pick who it should be,
who the winner should be, together.
-[Animesh] Right.
-You guys come up with what metrics.
We'll put this out.
Thousands of people will apply.
We will try and find the most talented
young minds in gaming available in India.
Make a group of 20,
and all of this for those 20.
[Animesh] 100%.
And the grant would come
depending on the talent.
[Nikhil] Done. Sean?
Um, yeah, I mean...
I think somewhere in this conversation
was briefly mentioned
that we started an incubator programme.
That is actually for...
quite professional level of developer
who has actually made
at least one or two games,
then they are capable of launching
the game at the commercial level.
I think you meant to help someone,
like, before that.
-Correct.
-Um...
I think for that,
we actually started talking about
how we expand the programme
to cover a wider range,
especially for younger folks.
I think we can maybe consider to, uh...
-to combine this.
-Mm-hmm.
Anyway, we had an idea of expanding
the incubator programme for wider teams.
Maybe, uh, the...
The original incubator meant to get
two, three, four teams per batch,
maybe six to eight per year.
I think that sounds larger than that.
I think that can fall
into that extended programme.
Um, we can offer mentorship.
We can offer a certain
short duration of a teaching course.
And also, we have certain partners
on the cloud side and et cetera,
they can offer us a credit for a cloud.
So, we have that, sort of, programme.
[Nikhil] Perfect.
-So, I'll do one crore as well.
-Hmm.
So, we will pick these 20 people
and do all we can
from time, money, grant,
cloud, credits, mentorship.
The only key here is
I will lean upon you guys
to pick who the 20 should be,
'cause I will get the applications in.
But maybe you guys
can come together and figure out
who the rightful 20 are
because we'll do so much for them.
Yeah. Sounds interesting.
-Exciting.
-Done. Super.
So thank you all for coming.
This has been fun.
I've learnt a lot, and I hope
some people watching this
will find this really useful.
-[Sean] Hope so.
-Thank you.
-[Nikhil] Thank you so much.
Thank you for your time.
Subtitled by Clockwork Captions
Hi, everybody.
I'm here with the famous Nikhil.
We just recorded a podcast, WTF Is,
and looking forward to seeing
whenever it gets published.
-Soon.
-How did we do?
We did well, very well.
Okay, hopefully,
it wasn't too bad. [laughs]